1.0 STUDENT GENERAL BEHAVIOUR
	i. Every student is expected to conduct themselves in a manner which will not discredit or harm the Institute or its members. Failure to maintain this standard, whether due to behaviour that is dishonest, deceitful or fraudulent, or in any other way that constitutes misconduct is a breach of regulations. This applies irrespective of whether or not the behaviour would constitute a criminal offence under the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. Examples of such misconduct are:
		a. Any action or activity which is in breach of a rule or regulation issued by or on behalf of the Institute.
		b. Behaviour which is violent or disorderly or which otherwise affects the maintenance of good order within the Institute or the proper functioning of any of its activities.
        c. Behaviour which might reasonably be expected to be harmful, threatening or offensive or such as to cause stress to any member of the Institute or to any other person connected with the Institute.
		d. Cheating in examinations, or in the preparation and submission of any assessed work (whether course work or research work),including the submission by a student of the academic work of another person as if it were his or her own and without acknowledgment (i.e.plagiarism).
	ii. Any form of stealing, pilfering, larceny or robbery are strictly prohibited and on conclusion of investigation, students that are found guilty of the earlier mention offence shall be expelled.
	iii. Students should also note that they are not in a position to represent themselves, or any clubs or societies of which they are members in such a way as could suggest that they have authority to act on behalf of the Institute or to commit the Institute to any particular course of action or expenditure.

2.0 COMMENTS AND COMPLAINTS BY STUDENTS
	i. Students reserve the right to comment on all matters relating to their membership of the Institute.  
    ii. Comments on programmes of study are particularty welcomed and would be carefully considered particularly during the Institute's periodic review exercises. Faculties would make local arrangements for students to express their views, but if students wish to register their comments formally,they should put them in writing and address same to the Registrar of the Institute.
	iii. If a student feels that their studies are not progressing satisfactorily for reasons beyond their control, they should discuss the matter in the first instance with the members of staff directly concerned.Problems relating to academic progress must be raised at the time they occur, so that they can be investigated and appropriate action taken.

3.0 RESEARCH AND OTHER WORKS OF STUDENTS
	i. All students should make themselves familiar with regulations which deal with intellectual property rights in relation to students' work, publications and various requirements in relation to projects, dissertations and research.
	ii. Students should take particular note that the copy right and other intellectual property rights in relation to their research and other work rests with the Institute. Except where specifically agreed otherwise in writing. Students should also note that if and whenthey undertake work sponsored byanindustry or similar outside organisation, they may be required to.
	iii. Projects, dissertations, thesis and other except where the contrary is explicit. Plagiarism (i.e the copying of ideas, data, and text without permission and/or proper acknowledgment) is not acceptable, and will normally result in failure of the work and disciplinary action.

4.0 DRESS CODE AND APPEARANCE
	i. The Dress Code is based on socialy acceptable manners. Selecting attire appropriate to specific occasions and activities are critical factors in the total educational process. Understanding and employing these behaviours do not only improve the quality of life, but also contribute to optimum moral. They also play a major role in instilling a sense of integrity and an appreciation for values and ethics. In addition,decent dressing and appearance of students will raise the overall image of the Institute.
	ii. The continuous demonstration of appropriate manners and dress ensures that AF/T students meet the very minimum standards of quality achievement of their lives. These holistically form the essential  areas of development necessary for propelling students toward successful future careers.
	iii. Students will be denied admission to various functions if their manner of dress is inappropriate. On this premise, students of AFIT are expected to dress neatly at all times. Military students are to adhere strictly to Service dress regulations. Lab jackets and overalls issued in the Institute are to be worn as instructed by various departments. All students, both Civilian and Military (when appropriate), are to conform with the dress regulations detailed in subsequent paragraphs.

5.0 APPROPRIATE DRESS AND APPEARANCE
	i. a. Civilian Male Students
		(1)Monday-Thursday
			(a) Suit with or without a tie.
			(b) Shirt/T-shirt on trousers/jeans (not body tight or exposing sensitive parts of the body).
		(2)Friday: National dress or any other dress allowed for Monday to Thursday.
	   b. Civilian Female Students
		(1) Monday-Thursday
			(a) Trouser/skirt suit with or without a tie.
			(b) Shirt/T-shirt on skirt/trousers/jeans (not body tight or exposing sensitive parts of the body)
			(c) Skirt must not be tight or above the knee
			(d) Tops must not expose sensitive parts of the body.
		(2) Friday: National dress or other dress allowed for Monday to Thursday.
			(e) Service personnel are to always dress in uniform according to the prevailing dress regulations applicable to the respective services.
	ii. The following dress codes are generally described as appropriate:
			(a) Female students are advised to have corporate hairstyles that are moderate, neat and decent.  
			(b) A pair of shoes or sandals should be worn always except after classroom hours of weekends.
			(c) Haircuts/styles must be well kept and presentable always.
			(d) Dinners, Cocktails and Cabarets: formal,semi-formal and smart casual respectively.
			(e) Any other dress regulations as may be imposed by the Institute.

6.0 INAPPROPRIATE DRESS AND APPEARANCE
	i. a. A pair of slippers is never to be worn by both male and female students except after classroom hours or weekends.
	   b. Overalls and lab coats are not to be worn throughout as the main dress of any day except with in the workshops/laboratories (this includes Service personnel).
	   c. Clothing with derogatory, offensive and/or lewd messages either in words or pictures are strictly prohibited.
       d. Tattooing of any part of the body is prohibited. Any tattoo done before admission into the Institute shall be declared during the first registration in the first year. Failure to comply will attract appropriate sanction.
       e. Piercing of any part of the body,other thanthe ear (for ladies only), is strictly prohibited. Any piercing done before admission into the Institute shall be declared during the first registration in the first year. Failure to do so will attract appropriate sanction.
	   f. The wearing of revealing blouses,especially low-cut blouses and the type of blouse that does not cover the navel, is strictly prohibited in the lecture and examination halls and within the Institute's environment.
       g. Wearing of ordinary transparent dresses is strictly prohibited in the lecture rooms and in the Institute environment.
       h. Tattered Ripped Jeans or jeans with holes are prohibited.
	   i. Wearing of sunglasses during lectures except for medical reasons.
       j. Wearing of ankle chains and rings on toes is prohibited in the Institute's community.
       k. The use of bare feet and bathroom slippers outside living quarters is strictly prohibited.
	   l. Men and women's trousers that show under wearare strictly prohibited.
	   m. The practice of pulling down trousers to/below the hip line is prohibited.
       n. Men's undershirts of any colour worn outside private living quarters are prohibited.
	   O. Du-rags, stocking caps, skull caps and bandanas are prohibited at all times except in the privacy of the student's living quarters.
       p. No male student is allowed to wear scarves or braided hair in the Institute.
       q. Clothing and jewelry that do not conform to the prescribed dress code will be confiscated.
	   r. Shoes that make noise and distract others such as stiletto shoes in the lecture and examination halls are prohibited.
	ii. All administrative, faculty and support staff will be expected to monitor students' behaviour applicable to this dress code and report any violations. The Institute will consider any violation of these dress codes as very serious, and severe disciplinary action will be taken against defaulters,which may include a written warning, sus ID cards are to be issued to both military and civilian students upon full registration in the Institute.Student ID cards would be used to gain access to the Institute and study areas As such,students' ID cards are to be visibly worn while inside the school premises. Students are expected to display their tags during examinations and assessments. Students without ID cards will not be allowed within the school premises and will be sanctioned Students are to be in possession of their JD cards at all times both within and outside the Institute. Loss of ID card should be reported to the security office as soon as possible.

7.0 CONDUCT IN AND AROUND SECURITY
	7.1 SENSITIVE LOCATIONS
      Students are not allowed to visit or be seen loitering around restricted areas and such areas that would be proclaimed drestricted from time to time by the Institute,except they are authorized to do so at that time. Such areas include but are not limited to the following:
		i. Alex Badeh Centre for Innovation and Adaptive Technology.
		ii. Mini Ammo Dump.
		iii. Mammy Market.
		iv. HQ AFIT.
			However,upon approval by appropriate authority for research or administrative purposes, students visiting such restricted areas are expected to conduct themselves as appropriate.

8.0 ACCESS TIMES AND ROUTES IN AND OUT OF AFIT
	i. Students will be granted access to training/study area throughout the duration of work periods provided they bear student tags. Students who wish to use training/study area after the close of work periods for personal academic pursuits, will be required to show their ID cards for access to buildings/lecture rooms. Students attempting to access the Institute's premises/facilities outside stipulated work periods without proper documentation will be sanctioned severely.

9.0 INTERNET AND SOCIAL MEDIA USAGE
	i. Guidelines for use of the Internet in the Institute are as follows;
		a. The Institute's Internet facility should not be used to access, create, transmit, print or download material that is derogatory, defamatory,obscene or offensive.Such materials include slurs, epithets, or anything that may be construed as harassment or disparagement based on race, colour, national origin, age, disability and religious/political beliefs.  
		b. The institute's Internet facility should not be used to access,send, receive, or solicit sexually-oriented messages or images.
		c. The downloading, disseminating or posting of any copyrighted material that is available on the Internet to the Institute's facility is an infringement of the Copyright Law.Permission to copy such material must be obtained from the publisher.
		d. The Institute's Internet facility should not be used to send or participate in chain letters, scam mails,pyramid schemes or other illegal schemes.
		e. The Institute's Internet facility should not be used to solicit or proselytize others for commercial purposes or other non-job-related purposes.

10.0 E-MAIL
	i. The use of Institute's email service (if/when available) in the conduct of academic and personal activities is allowed. However, prohibited activities when using Institute's email include:
		a. Sending unsolicited commercial announcement or advertising materials.
		b. Sending any material that may deform, libel, abuse, embarrass, tarnish, present a bad image of, or portray in false light, the Service, the recipient, the sender or any other person.
		c. Sending pornographic pictures or sexually inappropriate materials.
		d. Sending chain letters, unauthorized mass mailings, or any unauthorized request that asks the recipient to forward the message to other people.
		e. Circulating, spreading or disseminating information to email group which the user has not been designated or authorized to communicate with.

11.0 GENERAL PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES
	i. Generally, prohibited activities when using the Institute's information resources include, but are not limited to the following:		
		a. Violating copyrightlaws.
		b. Installing unauthorized software,including games and screen savers on the Institute's computers as these are sources of spreading viruses.
		c. Browsing the private files/system or accounts of others, except as provided by appropriate authority.
		d. Performing non-academic activities that may degrade the performance of information resources, such as streaming music or movies.
		e. Performing activities intended to circum-vent security or access controlsof any organization, including the possession or use of hardware or software tools to defeat software copy protection. Discover passwords, identify security vulnerabilities,decrypt encrypted files or compromise information security by any other means.
		f. Writing, copying, executing, or attempting to introduce any computer code designed to self-replicate,damage, or otherwise hinder the performance of or access to, any institute's computer network or information.
		g. Accessing the Institute's network via remote access service without the approval of appropriate authority.
		h. Using online information resources for personal gain.
		i. Using someone else's log on ID and password.
		j. Conducting fraudulent or illegal activities, including but not limited to gambling, trafficking in drugs or weapons, participating in terrorist acts, armed robbery,kidnapping or attempting unauthorized entry to any Institute's computers.
		k. Conducting fund raising, endorsing any product or service, lobbying, or participating in any partisan political activity.
		l. Disclosing any Institute's information that is not otherwise public without authorization.
		m. Performing any act that may discredit,defame, libel, abuse, embarrass, tarnish, present a bad image of or portray the institute's personnel in bad light.
		n. Membership of any secret society and registered with the Institute security office.
		o. Engaging in banking/online fraud, consumption ofhard drugs.

12.0 MOTOR VEHICLE AND TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
	i. Regulation of Vehicles. Cars Droughtto AFIT campus by students must be registered with the Chief Security Officer at the security gatehouse and must display the registration sticker provided. The Institute reserves the right to deny any vehicle access to any part of its premises and to remove any vehicle found in the Institute without approved sticker. Permission to enter AFIT premises is given by way of an appropriate registration sticker and is given condition that the Institute shall not be responsible for any loss or damage to the vehicle or its contents. Permission may be withdrawn at any time at the Instituted discretion.Sometimes, it may be necessary to control both traffic flow and parking throughout the technical and residential sites, hence, drivers are to conform to temporary signs and comply with instructions gi^en by the security staff when such restrictions are in force.
	ii. Security of Cars. All persons are advised not to items are in view, All parked vehicles should be left with alldoors locked and windows closed.  
	iii. All accidents invoking vehicles and which lead to personal injury and/or damage to Institute property are to be reported to the Chief Security Officer immediately.Accidents involving Institute's vehicles are also to be reported to the Chief Security Officer.

13.0 CONDUCT AND REGULATIONS FOR EXAMINATION                                         
		i. To permit students to sit for any examination, they must satisfy the following conditions:
			a. They must have registered for the course,
			b. They must have achieved the essential and minimum level of attendance (i.e 75%).
			c. They must have met all other departmental requirements vis-a-vis course work, practical,assignments and projects.
			d. Students are to ensure they know the dates,time and venue of the examination and their registration number.
		ii. To ensure that paragraph One is complied with,
			a. The Registrar shall supply each department with a list of registered students which shall be placed in every department immediately after the close of registration for each semester.
			b.Examination card shall be prepared by the Registrar for distribution tostudentsat least 2weeks before the semester examination begins These cards will be prepared on the basis of the reconciled registered students list.
	
    13.1 INSTRUCTIONS
		i. A student shall be at the examination hall at least 30minutes before the scheduled commencement time of the examination and 10 minutes to the start of the exam,students are to:
			a. Read and follow the instructions on the question paper. Students should only write their examination serial number on the answer booklet,answer sheets or other attachments.
			b. Fill in their particulars in the examination attendance list and other information as required by the Chief Invigilator.
			C. Ensure that the correct question paper is supplied with sufficient pages. All rough work shall be done on the answer booklet.
			d. In the event that the candidate has been supplied with an incorrect examination paper, the invigilators must be immediately informed.
			e. All students must check their pockets, pencil case, calculator e.t.c to ensure that they have not mistakenly brought incriminating material into the examination hall. If there are such items, they have to be removed from the candidates by the invigilators.  
			f.Students shall not bring cell phones into the examination hall.
	    ii. All students shall provide their writing materials,calculator and drawing instrumentswherenecessary or any other item authorized by the invigilator.
		iii. Students are NOT allowed to bring food into the examination hall.
		iv. Students shall be searched by appropriate authority before being allowed to enter the examination hall.
		v. No student shall be allowed to borrow any material from another student during the course of an examination.
		vi. All students shall sign the examination attendance register at the start and also at the end of the examination.
		vii. Students who arrive more than 45 minutes after the commencement of an examination will NOT be allowed to take the examination.
		viii. It is possible that an invigilator allows a student to leave an examination hall during the course of an examination, provided that:
			a. The period does not fall within the first 20minute of the examination or during the last 15minutes of the examination.
			b. The student submits his/her answer sheet to the invigilator in charge before leaving the examination hall and signs out if he/she does not intend to come back.
		ix. It is possible to re-admit a student who leaves an examination hall on the permission of the invigilator provided that the student was under the surveillance of the invigilator or any other person assigned by the invigilator during the period of his/her absence from the examination hall.
		x. It is mandatory for every student to bring his/her examination card and identity card to each examination.
		xi. It is mandatory for every student to leave any hand bag, backpack and/or other unauthorized materials outside the examination hall or at a place designated by the invigilator.
		xii. It is required of every student to write their examination number only excluding their name distinctly and correctly on all spaces provided in every answer booklet and on any separate sheet of paper provided for use during the examination. The use of scrap or rough paper is not allowed during an examination. Students are prohibited from writing on their question paper(s) and other valid documents such as clearance form,examination or identity cards etc.Any form of rough work must be done behind the answer booklet(s) and neaty crossed out afterward.
		xiii. Students are not allowedtoeitheranswer the questions before thecommencementofthe examination or to continuewritingafterthe innouncement made by the invigilators at the end of the examination.
		xiv. Students are not allowed to receive any books,other materials or devices through any person during their examination.
		xv. All forms of communication between Students which include talking, whispering, eye signals,exchange of materials are strictly prohibited.Communication between Students and instructors shall only be to seek clarification.
		xvi. Students are not permitted to render or receive anyform of assistance on matters that pertain to the examination,when the examination is in progress.
		xvii. Students must adhere to the instructions of the invigilators.
		xviii. Students who fall sick or are not able to continue with the examination must report to the invigilator.
		xix. At the end of the examination period, the answer arranged and tied as instructed.
		xx. Blank, or used answer sheets and/or booklet are not allowed to be taken outof the examination hall.
		xxi. Answer booklets taken out of the examination hall by students will not be accepted by the invigilator and the student shall not be readmitted into the examination hall.
		xxii. Items that are loaned to students by the Institute for the purpose of use during the examination must be returned to the invigilators at the end of the examination.
		xxiii. Students must remain seated in the examination hall unless the invigilator decides otherwise.
		xxiv.Students must leave the examination hall in an orderly manner.
		xxv. It is prohibited for any student to exit the examination hall with any paper and/or material provided during the examination except the question paper.
		xxvi. At the end of the time allocated for a particular examination, each student must remain seated after they have been instructed to stop writing while waiting for their answer sheets to be collected by the invigilator(s).  

14.0 EXAMINATION MALPRACTICE
		i. It is prohibited for any student to bring mobile phones, books, printed materials, audio recordings, written documents or unauthorized items into the examination hall except as may be stated in the rules of a particular examination.
		ii. It is prohibited for any student to copy from another an examination.
		iii. Any student suspectedof cheatingduring an examination is not expected to:
			a. Destroy, or refuse to surrenderany suspected incriminating material to the invigilator;
			b. Chew and/or swallow any suspected incriminating material;
			c. Run out of the examination hall with or without the suspected incriminating material;
			d. Refuse to sign the examination malpractice report form; or
			e. Refuse to appear before an examination malpractice investigation committee during his/her period of study at the institute.
		iv. It is prohibited for any student to be impersonated or to impersonate another student during an examination.
		v. It is prohibited for any student to be in possession of a leaked examination question paper and/or marking guide or model answers.
		vi. It is prohibited for any staff or student to aid or abet examination malpractice in any form.
		vii. It is prohibited for any student to exit the examination hall without the authorized permission of the invigilator(s).
		viii. It is prohibited for any student to communicate either by talking or whispering to another student during an examination.
		ix. It is prohibited for any student to drink, smoke, make noise or cause any form of disturbance during an examination.
		x. It is prohibited for any student to either insult or physically assault an invigilator, examination official or a fellow student during the course of an examination.
		xi. It is prohibited for any student to be in possession of any examination material before, during and/or after an examination.        
		xii. It is prohibited for any student to leave his/her seat without the authorization of an invigilator during an examination.
		xiii. It is prohibited for any student to refuse to change his/her seat after being instructed by the invigilator to do so.
		xiv. It is prohibited for any student torefuse to stop writing after the invigilator has instructed the students to stop writing at the end of an examination.
		xv. It is prohibited for any student to write on any body part irrespective of the relevance of the information written to the examination taken.  

15.0 PUNISHMENT FOR EXAMINATION MALPRACTICE
	15.1 INTRODUCTION
		1. Malpractice is defined as any deliberate act of wrong doing,contrary to the rules of examinations designed to give a candidate an unfair advantage. The following acts constitutes examination malpractice and any student found guilty of any of the undermentioned shall be expelled from the institute.
			i. Involvement in leakage of examination paper;
			ii. lllegal possession of live question paper or prepared answers, indicating there was fore-knowledge of the actual questions;
			iii. Substituting fresh answer scripts with the original script;
			iv. Physically assaulting any staff or student before, during or after any examination;
			V. Being in possession of arms and refusing to hand over the arms to invigilators;
			vi. Impersonation during examination. This applies to the impersonator and the impersonated or where an outsider signs the examination register on behalf of a bonafide student.
			vii. Any students who destroys or mutilates evidence that will be used to establish a case against them;
			viii. Falsely incriminating an invigilator, lecturer, staff or student in a case of examination malpractice;
			ix. Anyone who commits examination malpractice as a second time offender;
			X. Being in possession of fake certificates;
			xi. Any other conduct that the Examination Malpractice Committee deems fit to lead to suspension.
			xii. Bringing in unauthorized materials into the examination hall such as mobile phones,notes, textbooks e.t.c;
			xiii. Exposing one's answer script to be copied by another student;
			xiv. Writing projects for students by other persons;
			XV. Exchanging answer scripts and question papers during an examination;
			xvi. Unruly behavior in the examination hall;
			xvii. Any form of collaboration to cheat during an examination;
			xviii. Refusal to complete the examination malpractice form;
			xix. Writing on question paper during an examination;
			XX. Failure to comply with invigilators instructions during an examination;
			xxi. Any other act or conduct that the examination malpractices committee deems fit to lead to expulsion.
		2. The invigilators reserve the right to give lawful instructions to students for the successful conduct of an examination and the students must obey such lawful instructions.
		3. The Examination Malpractices Committee also reserves the right to award any other punishment it deems fit depending on the circumstances of each case and the evidence available to it.  

    15.2 INVESTIGATION OF EXAMINATION MALPRACTICE 
		1. It is expected of the Faculty to set up an Examination Malpractice Investigation Committee comprising of the Dean as the Chairman with members.
		2. If a student is found guilty,or issuspected of violating examination guidelines, a report must be made form completed by the invigilator(s) and the examination for onward submission to the Dean. The Dean is to present this before the Examination Malpractice Committee.
		3. The Examination Malpractice Committee is required to present a copy of their report and/or findings to the Provost.

16.0 APPEALS AGAINST DECISION OF THE ACADEMIC
	16.1 BOARD ON ISSUES OF EXAMINATION MALPRACTICE
		1. Any affected student who believes that they have not been given fair hearing, have the opportunity to appeal to the Academic Board through the Office of the Provost. Submission of Petitions must be within 5 days of receipt of the Setter conveying the Academic Board resolution.
		2. The Provost may admit the appeal and, if he believes it has merit, represent it to the Academic Board for re-assessment. The decision of the Academic Board after the re-assessment shall be absolute.  

17.0 EXAMINATION RESULTS
	17.1 CONSIDERATION OF EXAMINATION RESULTS GUIDELINES
		1.	The Syllabus approved by the Academic Board electives to be examined by all programmes of studies.
		2. The total of continuous assessment score and end-of-course examination score both ofwhich are compulsory shall be the overall score of a student in a  course and it shall be as provided inthecourse curriculum.
		3. The Academic Board may grant permission to postpone any examination for a student.
		4. A student who is absent from all examinations in a semester without an acceptable reason to support their absence shall be deemed to have voluntarily withdrawn from the Institute.
		5. Absence of a student from any examination shall be recorded as failure of that exam(s) except on permissible grounds.
		6.  Failure by a student to complete his Project/Dissertation/Thesis within the time scheduled will attract a penalty fee of an amount to be recommended by the Institute.  
		7. A student may register and attend lectures for a failed course in the corresponding semester of the following academic session.
		8. It is the duty of a student to report at appropriate time any case of sickness that may prevent them from writing or completing examination or any other special case that may affect their academic performance to their Course Coordinator, Supervisor or Student Affairs Officer.  

18.0 REQUIREMENTS FOR STUDENTS PROBATION
	18.1 TRANSFER AND WITHDRAWAL
		1. Students shall be placed on probation where there academic performance measured by the cummulative grade point average falls below 1.00 at the end of a year of study. Such students shall register for the courses failed as wel as some courses from the next level provided the total credit load taken shall not exceed the maximum allowed.
		2. A student whose CGPA falls below 1.00 at the end of the probation period shall be required to withdraw from the programme of study.  

19.0 WITHDRAWAL OF STUDENTS
	The conditions for withdrawal of students from the institute shall be as follows:
		a. A candidate whose Cumulative Grade Point Average is below 1.5 at the end of a particular year of probation should be required to withdraw from the programme. However, in order to minimize waste of human resources, consideration should be given to withdrawal from programme of study and possible transfer to other programmes within the same University
		b. If a student has utilized probation on two occasions and still fails to pull out of the probation zone.
		C. If having been earlier re-coursed,a student fails to obtain the minimum requirement for promotion in any session.
		d. If a student fails to pass subjects carried over from the previous session.
		e. If a student is found medically unfit to continue with the course.
		f. If a student is found cheating during any examination.
		g. If a student fails to sit for any examination without acceptable reasons such as confirmed medical situation, inferno, pregnancy, natural disasters or civil disturbances.
		h. If a personnel is dismissed or retired on disciplinary grounds from the service
		i. If in the opinion of the Commandant a student is unfit to remain in the Institute.
		j. A student withdrawn for examination malpractice shall not be re-admitted into the Institute.  
	
20.0 SEMESTER SYSTEM AND COURSE
	20.1 CREDIT SYSTEM
		1. The Institute shall operate the semester system for its academic programmes. Each academic session shall comprise two semesters and each semester shall last for a period of 18 weeks consisting of one week for registration 15 weeks for lectures and 2 weeks for examination. One week of the lectures shall consist of 40 hours of class room and/ or laboratory activities.Teaching and laboratory activities shall start daily at 8:00 am and end by 5:00pm with a lunch break in the afternoon. The first semester shall normally begin in mid-October each year and end in February of the following year.The second semester shall begin in early March and end in the first week of July. The schedule of the academic year of the Institute shall be as follows:
			a. 1st Semester:
				i. Registration = 1Week
				ii. Lectures = 15Weeks
				iii. Examination = 2Weeks
				iv. Total = 18Weeks
			b. Semester Break = 2Weeks
			c. 2nd Semester:
				i. Registration = 1Week
				ii. Lectures = 15Weeks
				iii. Examination = 2Weeks
				iv. Total = 18Weeks
			d. Long Vacation = 14Weeks
			e. Total = 52 Weeks

21.0 STUDENT PERFORMANCE GRADING
	1. The following grading system shall apply:
		a. Grade Point Average: Performance in any semester shall be reported in Grade Point Average (GPA). This is the average of the weighted grade points earned in the courses taken during the semester. The GPAis obtained by multiplying the Grade Point obtained in each course by the number of credit units assigned to that course and then summing those up and dividing by the total number of credit units taken for the semester.
		b. Cumulative Grade Point Average: Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) shall be the up to date means of the Grade Points earned by the student in a Programme of study it is an indication of the student's overall performance at any point in the training programme. To compute the CGPA, the total Grade Points multiplied by the respective Credit Units for all the semester are added and then divide a by the total number of credit units for ail courses registered by the student. The course grading system for the Institute shall be as follows:
			I. i. Credit Unit(s): Vary according to contact per week/semester and work load
			   ii. Percent score(s) = 70-100
			   iii. Letter Grades = A
			   iv. Grade Point (GP) = 5
			   v. Grade Point Average (GPA) = Derived by multiplying the Credit Unit(s) by the Grade Point and dividing the sum by the Total Credit Units
			   vi. Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) = 4.50 - 5.00
			II. i. Credit Unit(s): Vary according to contact per week/semester and work load
			   ii. Percent score(s) = 60-69
			   iii. Letter Grades = B
			   iv. Grade Point (GP) = 4
			   v. Grade Point Average (GPA) = Derived by multiplying the Credit Unit(s) by the Grade Point and dividing the sum by the Total Credit Units
			   vi. Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) = 3.50 - 4.49
			III. i. Credit Unit(s): Vary according to contact per week/semester and work load
			   ii. Percent score(s) = 50-59
			   iii. Letter Grades = C
			   iv. Grade Point (GP) = 3
			   v. Grade Point Average (GPA) = Derived by multiplying the Credit Unit(s) by the Grade Point and dividing the sum by the Total Credit Units
			   vi. Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) = 2.50 - 3.49
			IV. i. Credit Unit(s): Vary according to contact per week/semester and work load
			   ii. Percent score(s) = 45-49
			   iii. Letter Grades = D
			   iv. Grade Point (GP) = 2
			   v. Grade Point Average (GPA) = Derived by multiplying the Credit Unit(s) by the Grade Point and dividing the sum by the Total Credit Units
			   vi. Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) = 1.50 - 2.49
			V. i. Credit Unit(s): Vary according to contact per week/semester and work load
			   ii. Percent score(s) = 40-44
			   iii. Letter Grades = E
			   iv. Grade Point (GP) = 1
			   v. Grade Point Average (GPA) = Derived by multiplying the Credit Unit(s) by the Grade Point and dividing the sum by the Total Credit Units
			   vi. Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) = 1.00 - 1.49
			VI. i. Credit Unit(s): Vary according to contact per week/semester and work load
			   ii. Percent score(s) = 0-39
			   iii. Letter Grades = F
			   iv. Grade Point (GP) = 0
			   v. Grade Point Average (GPA) = Derived by multiplying the Credit Unit(s) by the Grade Point and dividing the sum by the Total Credit Units
			   vi. Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) = <1.00
		c. Continuous Assessment: A system of Continuous Assessment shall be used for every course and shall contribute a minimum of 30% of the total score for each course. Continuous Assessment for students shall be by means of term papers,frequent tests (formal and informal), assessment in workshop/ laboratory/studio/field/clinic/assignments e.t.c as may be applicable to respective disciplines.For effective implementation of the course credit system and the continuous assessment scheme,each academic department shall be provided with essential tools for information storage, retrieval and analysis in the form of micro computers along with relevant software.
		d. Class Attendance: Class Attendance shall be considered very important. Any student who does not record up to 75% attendance shall not be qualified to take examination in that course.
		e. Failed Course: Students shall be required to carry forward failed courses. Students who carry forward courses shall register for those courses first at the next opportunity before registering for the next level of courses for which passes in the failed courses are prerequisites for registration.
		f. Student Workload: An undergraduate full-time student of the Institute shall be required to register for a minimum of 15 credit units and a maximum of 24 credit units per semester.
	2. The minimum total workload expected to be covered for the award of undergraduate qualification for the Institute shall be:
		i.  A minimum of 120 credit units for 4 years degree programme and
		ii.  A minimum of 150 credit units for 5 years degree programme.
	3. The Institute shall comply with the NBTE guidelines governing National Diploma (ND) and Higher National Diploma (HND) programmes in Nigerian Polytechnics.  
	4. the Institute shall also comply with the NUC guidelines governing undergraduate and postgraduate studies in Nigerian Universities and the following shall constitute the workload for postgraduate programmes:
		i. All courses carry at least 2 credit units;
		ii. The research project report submitted in partial fulfillment of the requirements for the award of the PGD shall carry a minimum of 4 credit units;
		iii. In partial fulfillment of the requirements for the award of a Masters' Degree, the Masters Dissertation shall carry a minimum of 6 credit units; and
		iv. A Ph.D Thesis shall carry a minimum of 9 credit units.
	5. The minimum total workload expected to be covered for the award of postgraduate qualification of the Institute shall be:
		i. Postgraduate Diploma shall carry a minimum of 24 credit units;
		ii. Master's degree shall carry a minimum workload of 30 credit units; and
		iii. Ph.D shall carry a minimum workload of 18 credit units with at least 9 credit units for thesis.

22.0 COURSES AND COURSE DESCRIPTION
		1. There are 4 categories of courses for the undergraduate degree programmes of the Institute namely:
			a. General Studies Courses: Which enhance student's capacities in various field of study, namely; communication skills,Arts and Humanities, social. and behavioral sciences,quantification and natural sciences;
			b. Major Courses (Core Courses): These are mandatory courses in the students' main field of study. These should account for not less than 70% of credit earned;
			c. Required Ancillary Courses: These are compulsory courses in related or relevant fields and should contribute not less than 15% of total credits earned;and
			d. Elective Courses: These are non-mandatory courses outside the students' major field of study designed to give the student basic principles of all major fields of knowledge as they exist in inter-relationship. These shall account for not more than 10% of total credit earned.

23.0 STUDIES BREAK
		1. A student who has been away from studies on genuine grounds for not more than 4 semesters may be allowed by the Academic Board to resume his studies.
		2. A student resuming studies in accordance with paragraph 1 above shall be required to register at the beginning of the corresponding semester in which he broke his studies.
		3. A student who has satisfied the requirements of paragraph 1 and 2 shall have his previous examination results updated accordingly.  

24.0 GUIDELINES ON HANDLING EXAMINATION PETITIONS
		1. A Petition against examination result by a student must be submitted on completion of a prescribed form in 3copies, to the Head of Department,Dean of the Faculty,the Registrar, within 5 days of official release of examination results.
		2. On receipt of the petition, the Head of Department concerned shall:
			a. Get the script re-marked using different colour of ink or biro by 2 different Lecturers, other than the original examiner or course Lecturer, or by an External Examiner. The average of the 2 scores by the Lecturers or the score by the External Examiner shall be considered as the final score;
			b. Prepare the report of the re-assessment and forward recommendation to the Chairman,Academic Board through the Dean of the Faculty within 4 days of official receipt of such petition;
			c. Correct the original result as may be approved by the Chairman of Academic Board or a Committee of the Academic Board so authorized and notifies the Registrar accordingly.  
		3. The Head of Department shall advise the petitioner on the result of the petition within 30 days of for information. Thereafter, no further communication may be entertained.  

25.0 SYMBOLS USED IN RESULTS PRESENTATION
		1. i. Symbol = *
		   ii. Meaning = Resit/Carry-over result (Prefix to grade and score)
		   iii. Grade = *Grade
		   iv. Score = *Score
		2. i. Symbol = FNP
		   ii. Meaning = Fee not paid (Grade and score are hidden)
		   iii. Grade = FN
		   iv. Score = **
		3. i. Symbol = PC
		   ii. Meaning = Paper Cancelled
		   iii. Grade = PC
		   iv. Score = 0
		4. i. Symbol = AFS
		   ii. Meaning = Attendance Fall Short
		   iii. Grade = NA
		   iv. Score = **
		5. i. Symbol = EM
		   ii. Meaning = Examination Malpractice
		   iii. Grade = EM
		   iv. Score = **
		6. i. Symbol = AE
		   ii. Meaning = Absent with excuse
		   iii. Grade = AE
		   iv. Score = **
		7. i. Symbol = AWE
		   ii. Meaning = Absent without excuse
		   iii. Grade = AW
		   iv. Score = 0
		8. i. Symbol = SK
		   ii. Meaning =Sick
		   iii. Grade = SK
		   iv. Score = **
		9. i. Symbol = CO
		   ii. Meaning = Condoned
		   iii. Grade = CO
		   iv. Score = **
		10. i. Symbol = CP
		   ii. Meaning = CP	Course in progress
		   iv. Score = **
		11. i. Symbol = CNR
		   ii. Meaning = Course not registered for
		   iii. Grade = NR
		   iv. Score = **
		12. i. Symbol = EX
		   ii. Meaning = Exempted
		   iii. Grade = EX
		   iv. Score = **
		13. i. Symbol = DE
		   ii. Meaning = Deferred course
		   iii. Grade = DE
		   iv. Score = **
		14. i. Symbol = IS
		   ii. Meaning = Incomplete SIWES
		   iii. Grade = IS
		   iv. Score = **
		15. i. Symbol = IP
		   ii. Meaning = Incomplete Project
		   iii. Grade = PI
		   iv. Score = **
		16. i. Symbol = STD DEV
		   ii. Meaning = Standard Deviation
		   iii. Grade = 
		   iv. Score =
		17. i. Symbol = TOTAL
		   ii. Meaning = Total Number of Students
		   iii. Grade = 
		   iv. Score = 
		   
26.0 AMENDMENTS
		Any section of these Guidelines that may be proposed for amendment must be identified and the sponsor shall clearly state it in a presentation to the Academic Board.  
                         
27.0 AFIT Mission: The mission of AFIT is to produce knowledgeable and innovative students, worthy in character and learning, through effective teaching and research for the technological advancement of the nation in particular and the world in general.

28.0 AFIT Philosophy: The philosophy of AFIT is to strive for excellence in service delivery. These virtues shall be displayed in the approach to teaching, learning and research in the institute, including aspects of its administration. The core value of the institute shall be integrity, originality, humanity, enterprise, and cooperation to build an institution that is world class, that is unique and impactful, that produces high quality graduates, and has uncommon innovativeness. AFIT shall train its graduates to be efficient, effective, knowledgeable, productive and versatile.

29.0 Introducing AFIT: The Air Force Institute of Technology (AFIT) was initiated by the Nigerian Air Force (NAF) and came into being on 12 March 2008. The vision of Air Force Institute of Technology is to provide basic and advanced training for military personnel and civilians to meet the manpower requirement of the NAF, sister services and armed forces of friendly African countries. AFIT is a tertiary institution with a blend of military, civilian staff and students. AFIT is accredited by the National Board for Technical Education (NBTE) and National Universities Commission (NUC). AFIT as an institution of education exists as a community for the acquisition and advancement of knowledge, skills and understanding. The mandate of Air Force Institute of Technology is to conduct research and offer postgraduate, undergraduate, as well as higher and national diploma programs in various aerospace, aeronautical and allied disciplines. It may also add other programs as deemed necessary in future, subject to the directive of its Governing Council. For this purpose, it is free to establish linkages and/or collaborations with any other institutions or research establishments at home or abroad to further its goals. The Institute is governed and controlled by three (3) main bodies. These bodies are: AFIT Governing Council, AFIT Management Team and AFIT Academic Board members. The Institute is headed by the Commandant with an establishment rank of Air Vice Marshal (AVM). The Commandant is responsible for all matters pertaining the Institute and reports to Headquarters of the Nigerian Air Force through the Governing Council. The institute currently offers an inspiring collection of courses and specializations organized under different faculties. Currently, AFIT comprises 5 faculties, each consisting of various departments. The faculties are:  
	i. Faculty of Air Engineering
	ii. Faculty of Computing
	iii. Faculty of Ground and Communication Engineering 
	iv. Faculty of Social and Management Sciences and 
	v. Faculty of Sciences
	There is also a School of Postgraduate Studies (SPS). All the basic course curricula are structured to meet the minimum requirements for MSc in the aerospace sector. The first degree or B.Sc. and B.Eng. programmes are:
	i. B.Eng. Aerospace Engineering
	ii. B.Eng. Mechanical Engineering
	iii. B.Eng. Electrical and Electronics Engineering
	iv. B.Eng. Information & Communication Technology
	v. B.Eng. Automotive Engineering
	vi. B.Eng. Civil Engineering
	vii. B.Sc. Accounting
	viii. B.Sc. Business Administration
	ix. B.Sc. Economics
	x. B.Sc. Marketing                      
	xi. B.Sc. Cyber Security
	xii. B.Eng. Mechatronics Engineering
	xiii. B.Eng. Metallurgical and Material Engineering
	xiv. B.Eng. Telecommunication Engineering
	xv. B.Sc. Computer Science
	xvi. B.Sc. Chemistry
	xvii. B.Sc. Mathematics
	xviii. B.Sc. Physics
	xix. B.Sc. Physics with Electronics
	xx. B.Sc. Marketing
	xxi. B.Sc. Statistics
	xxii. B.Sc. International Relations
	xxiii. B.Sc.Banking and Finance  
	
30.0 AFIT GOVERNING COUNCIL
	The AFIT Governing Council is the highest policy/decision making body of the Institute. It comprises the following which is subject to regular review:
		a. Chief of the Air Staff (CAS) ..............................................Chairman.
		b. Chief of Policy and Plans (COPP)............................................Member.
		c. Air Officer Commanding Training Command ....................................Member.
		d. Chief of Aircraft Engineering (CAcE)........................................Member.
		e. Commandant AFIT ............................................................Member.
		f. Director of Training (DOT) .................................................Member.
		h. Director of Finance and Accounting (DFA)....................................Member.
		i. Director of Education (DOEDN)...............................................Member.
		j. A nominee of the Ministry of Defense........................................Member.
		k. A nominee of the National Universities Commission...........................Member.
		1. A nominee of the National Board for Technical Education.....................Member.
		m. A nominee of the Ministry of Science and Technology.........................Member.
		n. A nominee of the Ministry of Aviation ......................................Member.
		o. AFIT Provost................................................................Member.
		p. AFIT Registrar.............................................................Member/Sec.

31.0 RESPONSIBILITIES OF AFIT GOVERNING COUNCIL
	The AFIT Governing Council is vested with the following powers and responsibilities:
		i. Formulation of policies for the Institute.
		ii. Monitoring the implementation of approved policies.
		lii. Oversight functions on the administration of the Institute.
		iv. Approval of AFIT budget and projects.
		v. Appointment, promotion and discipline of AFIT staff.
		vi. AFIT statutes (To be derived from AFIT blueprint).
		vil. Nigerian Air Force Personnel Training and Career Progression Guide.  
		viii. Meeting National Universities Commission's accreditation requirements for academic programmes.
		ix. Meeting National Board for Technical Education's accreditation requirements for academic programmes.
		x. Meeting Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority's requirements for licensing aircraft maintenance engineers.
		xi. Developing and signing Memorandum of Understandings (MOUs).
		xii. Relevant civil regulatory provisions.
31.0 AFIT MANAGEMENT TEAM
	The Management Team is constituted for the day-to-day running of the affairs of AFIT. The Management Team comprises the following which is subject to regular review by the AFIT Governing Council.
		a. Commandant AFIT .........................Chairman.
		b. Deputy Commandant .......................Member.
		c. Provost .................................Member.
		d. The most senior Dean ....................Member.
		e. PSO Finance .............................Member.
		f. The Registrar ..........................Member/Sec.
		
32.0 RESPONSIBILITIES OF AFIT MANAGEMENT TEAM
	The Team is vested with the following powers and responsibilities:
		a. Planning, coordinating, directing and organizing all activities of the Institute.
		b. Advising the Governing Council on all policy matters concerning the Institute.  
		C. Preparing budgets and other major requirements of Bie Institute for consideration by Governing Council.
		d. Deliberating and taking decisions on major disciplinary cases.
		e. Considering tenders for all contracts within the statutory powers of the Institute.
		
32.0 AFIT SENATE
	The Academic Board is constituted for the day-to-day running of the academic affairs of AFIT. The Academic members comprises the following which is subject to regular review by the AFIT Management Team.
		a. Provost .......................Chairman
		b. All Deans ......................Member
		c. All Heads of Departments .......Member.
		d. Directors/Heads of Units .......Member.
		e. Librarian ......................Member.
		f. Bursar .........................Member.
		g. The Registrar ..................Member/Sec.

33.0 RESPONSIBILITIES OF AFIT SENATE
	The members are vested with the following powers and responsibilities:
		a. Planning, coordinating, directing and organizing academic activities.
		b. Advising the Management Team on all academic matters.
		c. Preparing academic calendars and budget for consideration by Management Team.
		d. Deliberating and taking decisions on major student malpractices cases.

34.0 FACULTY BOARD
	The Faculty Board is constituted for the day-to-day running of the faculty and answerable to the Commandant through the Provost The Faculty is headed by the Dean, assisted by the Heads of Departments and Faculty Officer. It comprises the following which is subject to regular review by the AFIT Management Team.
		a. Dean ......................Chairman.
		b. All Head of Departments ...Member.
		c. Faculty Officer ...........Member/Sec.

35.0 RESPONSIBILITIES OF FACULTY BOARD MEMBERS
	The members are vested with the following powers and responsibilities:
		a. Planning, coordinating and directing academic activities in the faculty.
		b. Advising the Academic Board on all academic matters.
		c. Deliberating and taking decisions on major students' academic programmes.

36.0 DEPARTMENTAL BOARD
	The Departmental board members consist of all academic staff, led by the Head who is responsible for the day-to-day running of the department and answerable to the Dean of the Faculty. The department also houses technical and administrative staff. The technical staff are domiciled in the laboratories while the administrative staff are domiciled in the departmental general office.  
	36.1 RESPONSIBILITIES OF DEPARTMENTAL BOARD MEMBERS
		The members are vested with the following powers and responsibilities:
			a. Planning, coordinating and directing academic activities within the department.
			b. Advising the Faculty Board on all academic matters.
			c. Deliberating and taking decisions on students' academic programmes/status.

37.0 B.Sc. (HONS) Computer Science
	The Department of Computer Science is one of the largest academic departments in every Institution. It is one of the departments in the Faculty of Computing, Air Force Institute of Technology. The Department aims to equip students with high academic standard through teaching and research activities. Specifically, the programmes are designed to provide training in Computer Science and enhance students' cognitive abilities.

38.0 PHILOSOPHY, AIM AND OBJECTIVES OF THE DEPARTMENT
	38.1 PHILOSOPHY
		The philosophy of the Department is to graduate well-rounded professionals with the proficiency of protecting digital assets, critical infrastructure and the digital ecosystem.Aim
	
    38.2 AIM	
		The aim of the Department is to produce professionals with the requisite skills to protect information systems, computers, networks, programs, data and other critical infrastructure from attack, damage or unauthorised access.
	
    38.3 OBJECTIVES
		(1) Create in students the awareness of and enthusiasm for computer science and its capabilities.  
		(ii) Involve the students in an intellectually stimulating and satisfying experience of learning and studying
		(iii)Provide a broad and balanced foundation in computer science knowledge and practical skills.
		(iv)Develop in students through an education in computer science a range of transferable applicable skills of information technology to all aspects of human endeavours.
		(v) Generate in students an appreciation of the importance of computer in an industrial, economic, technological and social context.
		(vi)Provide students with knowledge and skills base for further studies in computer science or multi-disciplinary studies involving computer science.

39.0 ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS
	39.1 100 Level
		A candidate must possess all of the following to gain admission in the 100 level of the programme:
			1. UTME scores, as may be approved by the Senate, in English, Mathematics, Physics and one other subject from Chemistry, Geography or Biology.
			2. Five (5) credit passes in the Senior Secondary Certificate Examination(SSCE) or its equivalent in English Language, Mathematics, Physics to. form the core subjects and any other relevant science subjects at not more than two sitting·

	39.2 200 Level
		The 100Level Admission by Direct Entry, in addition to qualifications:
			(i) GCE or two A' Level/IJMB passes or its equivalent with passes in Mathematics and Physics.
			(ii) Ordinary National Diploma from approved Polytechnics grade not below Upper Credit.
			(iii)Higher National Diploma from approved Polytechnics or Colleges of Technology in Computer Science with a grade not less than Upper Credit.

40.0 COURSE REQUIREMENTS
	The courses terminologies are defined as follows:
		i. Core/Compulsory Course ©: A course which every student must compulsorily take and pass in any particular programme at a particular level of study.
		ii. Elective Course (E): A course that students take within or outside the faculty. Students may graduate without passing the course provided the minimum credit unit for the course had been attained.
		iii. Required Course ®: passed before graduation.  
		iv Course Unit(CU): A unit of course is defined as one contact hour of Lecture (L), Tutorial (T) or Practical (P).

41.0 CONDITIONS FOR GRADUATION
	i. A student must take and pass a total minimum of 120 units in all, spread across minimum of 15 units and maximum of 24 credit units of courses in any given semester. A student must therefore, accumulate at least 30 units per session to qualify for graduation.
	ii. All students are required to take and pass prescribed General studies (GST) courses before graduation.
	iii. A student must obtain at least 75% attendance in each course registered for, to be eligible to sit for end of semester examinations in that course.
	iv. The minimum period allowed for candidates to complete the programme is 6 semester or 3 years for DE students and 8 semester or 4 years for UTME students and maximum period of 10 semesters or 5 years for DE and 12semesters or 6 years for UTME students.
 
42.0 SEMESTER COURSE
	42.1 100 LEVEL COMPUTER SCIENCE FIRST/1ST SEMESTER COURSES
		1. 	i. Course Code = CSC 101
			ii. Status = Core/Compulsory
			iii. Course Title = Introduction to Computer Science I
			iv. Unit = 3
		2. 	i. Course Code = CHM 101
			ii. Status = Core/Compulsory
			iii. Course Title = General Chemistry I
			iv. Unit = 3
		3. 	i. Course Code = PHY 101
			ii. Status = Core/Compulsory
			iii. Course Title = General Physics I (Mechanics, Thermal Physics and Waves)
			iv. Unit = 3
		4. 	i. Course Code = PHY 107
			ii. Status = Core/Compulsory
			iii. Course Title = General Physics Laboratory l
			iv. Unit = 1
		5. 	i. Course Code = MTH 101
			ii. Status = Core/Compulsory
			iii. Course Title = General Mathematics I (Algebra and Trigonometry)
			iv. Unit = 3
		6. 	i. Course Code = MTH 103
			ii. Status = Core/Compulsory
			iii. Course Title = General Mathematics III (Vector, Geometry and Dynamics)
			iv. Unit = 3
		7. 	i. Course Code = GST 111
			ii. Status = Core/Compulsory
			iii. Course Title = Communication in English I
			iv. Unit = 2
		8. 	i. Course Code = GST 121
			ii. Status = Core/Compulsory
			iii. Course Title = Use of Library, Study Skills and ICT
			iv. Unit = 2
		9. 	i. Course Code = GST 113
			ii. Status = Core/Compulsory
			iii. Course Title = Nigerian People and Culture
			iv. Unit = 2
		TOTAL CREDIT UNIT = 22
			
	42.2 100 LEVEL COMPUTER SCIENCE SECOND/2ND SEMESTER COURSES
		1. 	i. Course Code = CSC 102
			ii. Status = Core/Compulsory
			iii. Course Title = Introduction to Problem Solving
			iv. Unit = 3
		2. 	i. Course Code = CYB 102
			ii. Status = Core/Compulsory
			iii. Course Title = Introduction to Cyber Security (Innovative)
			iv. Unit = 3
		3. 	i. Course Code = PHY 102
			ii. Status = Core/Compulsory
			iii. Course Title = General Physics II (Electricity, Magnetism and Modern Physics)
			iv. Unit = 3
		4. 	i. Course Code = PHY 108
			ii. Status = Core/Compulsory
			iii. Course Title = General Physics Laboratory Il
			iv. Unit = 1
		5. 	i. Course Code = MTH 102
			ii. Status = Core/Compulsory
			iii. Course Title = General Mathematics I (Calculus)
			iv. Unit = 3
		6. 	i. Course Code = STA 102
			ii. Status = Core/Compulsory
			iii. Course Title = Statistics for Physical Sciences and Engineering
			iv. Unit = 2
		7. 	i. Course Code = GST 104
			ii. Status = Elective
			iii. Course Title = Logic, Philosophy and Human Existence
			iv. Unit = 2
		8. 	i. Course Code = GST 112
			ii. Status = Core/Compulsory
			iii. Course Title = Communication in English II
			iv. Unit = 2
		9. 	i. Course Code = GST 106
			ii. Status = Core/Compulsory
			iii. Course Title = Contemporary Health Issues
			iv. Unit = 2
        10. i. Course Code = AFT 112
			ii. Status = Core/Compulsory
			iii. Course Title = Introduction to Aviation
			iv. Unit = 2
		TOTAL CREDIT UNIT = 22		

    42.3 200 LEVEL COMPUTER SCIENCE FIRST/1ST SEMESTER COURSES
        1. 	i. Course Code = CSC 213
			ii. Status = Core/Compulsory
			iii. Course Title = Computer Hardware
			iv. Unit = 3
		2. 	i. Course Code = GST 203 
			ii. Status = Core/Compulsory
			iii. Course Title = Environmental and Sustainable Development
			iv. Unit = 2
		3. 	i. Course Code = GST 223
			ii. Status = Core/Compulsory
			iii. Course Title = Entrepreneurship Studies I
			iv. Unit = 3
		4. 	i. Course Code = MTH 201
			ii. Status = Core/Compulsory
			iii. Course Title = Mathematical Methods I
			iv. Unit = 3
		5. 	i. Course Code = MTH 205
			ii. Status = Required
			iii. Course Title = Linear Algebra I 
			iv. Unit = 2
		6. 	i. Course Code = CSC 205
			ii. Status = Core/Compulsory
			iii. Course Title = Principles of Operating System I
			iv. Unit = 3
        7. 	i. Course Code = CSC 201
			ii. Status = Core/Compulsory
			iii. Course Title = Computer Programming I
			iv. Unit = 3
        TOTAL CREDIT UNIT = 19
        NOTE: Direct Entry students must offer the ALL the 100L GST courses 
  
	42.4 200 LEVEL COMPUTER SCIENCE SECOND/2ND SEMESTER COURSES
        1. 	i. Course Code = GST 202
			ii. Status = Core/Compulsory
			iii. Course Title = Peace and Conflict Resolution
			iv. Unit = 2
		2. 	i. Course Code = PHY 202
			ii. Status = Required
			iii. Course Title = Electric Circuit and Electronics
			iv. Unit = 3
		3. 	i. Course Code = CSC 299
			ii. Status = Core/Compulsory
  			iii. Course Title = Industrial Training (12 Weeks)
			iv. Unit = 3
		4. 	i. Course Code = CSC 208
			ii. Status = Core/Compulsory
			iii. Course Title = Discrete Structures (Computer Science)
			iv. Unit = 3
		5. 	i. Course Code = CSC 218
			ii. Status = Core/Compulsory
			iii. Course Title = Foundation of Sequential Programming 
			iv. Unit = 3
		6. 	i. Course Code = CSC 204
			ii. Status = Core/Compulsory
			iii. Course Title = Fundamentals of Data Structures
			iv. Unit = 3
		7. 	i. Course Code = CSC 202
			ii. Status = Core/Compulsory
			iii. Course Title = Computer Programming II
			iv. Unit = 3
        8. 	i. Course Code = GST 204
			ii. Status = Core/Compulsory
			iii. Course Title = Leadership Skills
			iv. Unit = 2
		TOTAL CREDIT UNIT = 22	

    42.5 300 LEVEL COMPUTER SCIENCE FIRST/1ST SEMESTER COURSES
        1. 	i. Course Code = GST 301
			ii. Status = Core/Compulsory
			iii. Course Title = Entrepreneurship Studies II
			iv. Unit = 2
		2. 	i. Course Code = CSC 333
			ii. Status = Core/Compulsory
			iii. Course Title = Computational Science and Numerical Methods
			iv. Unit = 3
		3. 	i. Course Code = CSC 321
			ii. Status = Core/Compulsory
  			iii. Course Title = System Analysis and Design
			iv. Unit = 3
		4. 	i. Course Code = CSC 315
			ii. Status = Core/Compulsory
			iii. Course Title = Computer Architecture and Organization I
			iv. Unit = 3
		5. 	i. Course Code = CSC 305
			ii. Status = Core/Compulsory
			iii. Course Title = Principles of Operating Systems II 
			iv. Unit = 3
		6. 	i. Course Code = CSC 301
			ii. Status = Core/Compulsory
			iii. Course Title = Structured Programming
			iv. Unit = 3
		7. 	i. Course Code = CSC 310
			ii. Status = Core/Compulsory
			iii. Course Title = Algorithms and Complexity Analysis
			iv. Unit = 3
		TOTAL CREDIT UNIT = 20
         
    42.6 300 LEVEL COMPUTER SCIENCE SECOND/2ND SEMESTER COURSES
        1. 	i. Course Code = GST 308
			ii. Status = Core/Compulsory
			iii. Course Title = Formal Methods and Software Development
			iv. Unit = 3
		2. 	i. Course Code = CSC 339
			ii. Status = Core/Compulsory
			iii. Course Title = Industrial Training (12 Weeks)
			iv. Unit = 3
		3. 	i. Course Code = CSC 332
			ii. Status = Core/Compulsory
  			iii. Course Title = Survey of Programming Languages
			iv. Unit = 3
		4. 	i. Course Code = CSC 316
			ii. Status = Core/Compulsory
			iii. Course Title = Compiler Construction I
			iv. Unit = 2
		5. 	i. Course Code = CSC 314
			ii. Status = Core/Compulsory
			iii. Course Title = Computer Architecture and Organization II 
			iv. Unit = 3
		6. 	i. Course Code = CSC 304
			ii. Status = Core/Compulsory
			iii. Course Title = Data Management I
			iv. Unit = 2
		7. 	i. Course Code = CSC 302
			ii. Status = Core/Compulsory
			iii. Course Title = Object Oriented Programming
			iv. Unit = 3
		TOTAL CREDIT UNIT = 19

    42.7 400 LEVEL COMPUTER SCIENCE FIRST/1ST SEMESTER COURSES
        1. 	i. Course Code = CSC 410
			ii. Status = Required
			iii. Course Title = Project Management
			iv. Unit = 3
		2. 	i. Course Code = CSC 423
			ii. Status = Core/Compulsory
			iii. Course Title = Computer Networks and Communication
			iv. Unit = 3
		3. 	i. Course Code = CSC 441
			ii. Status = Core/Compulsory
  			iii. Course Title = Human-Computer Interaction
			iv. Unit = 2
		4. 	i. Course Code = CSC 417
			ii. Status = Core/Compulsory
			iii. Course Title = Resarch Methodology in Computer Science
			iv. Unit = 2
		5. 	i. Course Code = CSC 421
			ii. Status = Core/Compulsory
			iii. Course Title = Net-Centric Computing
			iv. Unit = 3
		6. 	i. Course Code = CSC 403
			ii. Status = Core/Compulsory
			iii. Course Title = Software Engineering
			iv. Unit = 4
		7. 	i. Course Code = CSC 411
			ii. Status = Core/Compulsory
			iii. Course Title = Artificial Intelligence
			iv. Unit = 3
        8. 	i. Course Code = CSC 401
			ii. Status = Core/Compulsory
			iii. Course Title = Organization of Programming Languages
			iv. Unit = 3
		TOTAL CREDIT UNIT = 23

    42.8 400 LEVEL COMPUTER SCIENCE SECOND/2ND SEMESTER COURSES
        1. 	i. Course Code = CSC 419
			ii. Status = Core/Compulsory
			iii. Course Title = Project 
			iv. Unit = 6
		2. 	i. Course Code = CSC 436
			ii. Status = Core/Compulsory
			iii. Course Title = Cloud Computing (Innovative)
			iv. Unit = 2
		3. 	i. Course Code = CSC 456
			ii. Status = Core/Compulsory
  			iii. Course Title = Formal Methods of Computation
			iv. Unit = 3
		4. 	i. Course Code = CSC 482
			ii. Status = Core/Compulsory
			iii. Course Title = Modelling and Simulation
			iv. Unit = 3
		5. 	i. Course Code = CSC 416
			ii. Status = Core/Compulsory
			iii. Course Title = Compiler Construction II
			iv. Unit = 3
		6. 	i. Course Code = CSC 404
			ii. Status = Core/Compulsory
			iii. Course Title = Data Management II
			iv. Unit = 3
        TOTAL CREDIT UNIT = 23
   
  LEGEND:
      C=Compulsory                      L= Lecture Hours per semester
      P=Practical Hours per semester    E=Elective
      T=Tutorial                        R=Required  

43.0 COURSE DESCRIPTIONS 
    43.1 100 LEVEL COURSE DESCRIPTIONS
    	I. CSC 101: Introduction to Computer Science (3 Credit Units: Lecture Hours Per Semester - 30, Practical Hours Per Semester - 45): Survey of computers and information processing and their roles in society. This course introduces a historical perspective of computing, hardware, software, information systems, and human resources and explores their integration and application in business and other segments of society. Students will be required to complete lab assignments using the PC's operating system, and several commonly used applications, such as word processors, spreadsheets, presentations, graphics and other applications. Internet and on-line resources, browsers and search engines.
    	II. CHM 101:General Chemistry I (3 Credit Units: Lecture Hours Per Semester - 45): Atoms, molecules and chemical reactions. Modern electronic theory of atoms. Electronic configuration, periodicity and building up of the periodic table. Hybridization and shapes of simple molecules. Valence Forces; Structure of solids. Chemical equations and stoichiometry; Chemical bonding and intermolecular forces, kinetic theory of matter. Elementary thermochemistry; rates of reaction, equilibrium and thermodynamics. Acids, 18 bases and salts. Properties of gases. Redox reactions and introduction to Electrochemistry, Radioactivity.
    	III. PHY 101 General Physics I (3 Credit Units: Lecture Hours Per Semester - 45): (Mechanics, Thermal Physics and Waves) Space and Time, Units and Dimension, Kinematics; Fundamental Laws of Mechanics, statics and dynamics; work and energy; Conservation laws. Moments and energy of rotation; simple harmonic motion; motion of simple systems; Elasticity; Hooke's law, Young's shear and bulk moduli, Hydrostatics; Pressure; buoyance, Archimedes' Principles; Surface tension; adhesion, cohesion, capillarity, drops and bubbles; Temperature, heat, gas laws; laws of thermodynamics; kinetic theory of gases; Sound. Types and properties of waves as applied to sound and light energies. Superposition of waves. Propagation of sound in gases, solids and liquids and their properties. The unified spectra analysis of waves. Applications.
    	IV. PHY 107: General Physics Laboratory I (1 Credit Unit: Practical Hours Per Semester - 45): This introductory course emphasizes quantitative measurements, the treatment, of measurement errors, and graphical analysis. A variety of experimental techniques will be employed. The experiments include studies of meters, the oscilloscope, mechanical systems, electrical and mechanical resonant systems, light, heat, viscosity, etc., covered in PHY 101and PHY 102. However, emphasis should be placed on the basic physical techniques for observation, measurements, data collection, analysis and deduction.
    	V. MTH 101 General Mathematics I (3 Credit Units: Lecture Hours Per Semester - 45): (Algebra and Trigonometry) Elementary set theory, subsets, union, intersection, complements, Venn diagrams. Real numbers, integers, rational and irrational numbers. Mathematical induction, real sequences and series, theory of Quadratic equations, Binomial theorem, complex numbers, algebra of complex numbers, the Argand diagram. De-Moiré's theorem, nth roots of unity. Circular measure, trigonometric functions of angles of any magnitude, addition and factor formulae.
    	VI. MTH 103: General Mathematics III (3 Credit Units: Lecture Hours Per Semester - 45):(Vectors, Geometry and Dynamics) Geometric representation of vectors in 1-3 dimensions, components, direction cosines. Addition, Scalar, multiplication of vectors, linear independence. Scalar and vector products of two vectors. Differentiation and integration of vectors with respect to a scalar variable Two dimensional co-ordinate geometry. Straight lines. Circles parabola, ellipse, hyperbola. Tangents, Normals. Elementary Mathematics IV. Impact of two smooth sphere, and of a sphere on a smooth sphere.
    	VII. GST 111: Communication in English I (2 Credit Units: Lecture Hours Per Semester - 30): Effective communication and writing in English Language skills, essay writing skills (organization and logical presentation of ideas, grammar and style), comprehension, sentence construction, outlines and paragraphs.
    	VIII. GST 121: Use of Library, Study Skills and ICT(2 Credit Units: Lecture Hours Per Semester - 30): Brief history of libraries; Library and education; University libraries and other types of libraries; Study skills (reference services); Types of library materials, using library resources including e-learning, e-materials, etc.; Understanding library catalogues (card, OPAC, etc.) and classification; Copyright and its implications; Database resources; Bibliographic citations and referencing. Development of modern ICT; Hardware technology; Software technology; Input devices; Storage devices; Output devices; Communication and internet services; Word processing skills (typing, etc.).
    	IX. GST 113: Nigerian Peoples & Culture (3 Credit Units: Lecture Hours Per Semester - 45): Nigeria Culture: The Concept of Culture and Nigerian Society. Married Family, African beliefs; Traditional Religions in Nigerian culture & Human Settlement. Traditional economic System. Expressive Arts and Nigerian Traditional Agriculture. Citizenship Education: citizenship and Constitute Authority, governmental Systems and Processes in Nigeria. Federalism, Constitutions, Rights and obligations. National Ethic and Discipline; National identity Environmental Utilization and Conservation.
    	X. CSC 102: Introduction to Problem Solving(3 Credit Units: Lecture Hours Per Semester - 30, Practical Hours Per Semester - 45): Role of Algorithms in problem solving process, concepts and properties of Algorithms. Implementation strategies, Development of Flow Charts, Pseudo Codes. Program objects. Implementation of. Algorithms in a programming Language Visual BASIC/JAVA/C/C++
    	XI. CYB 102: Introduction to Cyber Security (3 Credit Units: Lecture Hours Per Semester - 30, Practical Hours Per Semester - 45): Provides an overview of the introductory topics in cyber security. Topics include basic concepts Confidentiality, Integrity, Availability, Authentication, Access Control, NonRepudiation and Fault-Tolerant methodologies for implementing security, security policies, best current practices, testing security, and incident response, risk management, disaster recovery, access control, basic cryptography and software application vulnerabilities.
    	XII. MTH 102: General Mathematics II (Calculus)(3 Credit Units: Lecture Hours Per Semester - 45): Functions of a real variable, graphs, limits and idea of continuity. The derivative, as limit of rate of change. Techniques of differentiation, maxima and minima. Extreme curve sketching, integration, Definite integrals, reduction formulae, application to areas, volumes (including approximate integration: Trapezium and Simpson's rule).
    	XIII. PHY 102: General Physics II (3 Credit Units: Lecture Hours Per Semester - 45):(Electricity, Magnetism and Modern Physics). Electrostatics; conductors and currents; dielectrics; magnetic fields and electro- magnetic induction; Maxwell's equations; electromagnetic oscillations and waves; Coulomb's law; Methods of charging; Ohm's law and analysis of DC circuits: AC voltages applied to Inductors, capacitors and resistance Applications.
    	XIV. PHY 108: General Physics Laboratory II (1 Credit Unit: Lecture Hours Per Semester - 45)This is a continuation of the experiments designed for PHY 101and PHY 102 some of which have been covered under PHY 107
    	XV. STA 102: Statistics for Physical Sciences and Engineering (2 Credit Units: Lecture Hours Per Semester - 30): Scope for statistical methods in physical sciences and engineering. Measures of location, partition and dispersion. Elements of probability. Probability distribution: binomial Poisson, geometric, hypergeometric, negative-binomial, normal Poisson, geometric, hypergeometric, negative-binomial, normal, Student's t and chi-square distributions. Estimation (point and internal) and tests of hypotheses concerning population means proportions and variances. Regression and correlation. Non-parametric tests. Contingency table analysis. Introduction to design of experiments. Analysis of variance.
    	XVI. BIO 102: General Biology I (3 Credit Units: Lecture Hours Per Semester - 45): Origin of life and influence of living things on the chemistry of the Earth. Essentials of life, including sources and use of energy, responsiveness to natural selection and cellularity. Cell structure and organization, functions of cellular organelles, diversity, characteristics and classification of living things, general reproduction, interrelationship of organisms; heredity and evolution, elements of ecology and types of habitat.
    	XVII. GST 112: Logic,Philosophy and Human Existence (2 Credit Units: Lecture Hours Per Semester - 30): Philosophy especially logic. Symbolic logic, special symbols such as conjunction, negation, affirmative, disjunction, equivalence and conditional statements, law of thought. The method of deduction using rules of inferences.
    	XVIII. AFT 112: Introduction to Aviation (2 Credit Units: Lecture Hours Per Semester - 30): History of Aviation, the atmosphere, aircraft types, categorization and the aviation industry, basic aerodynamics, aircraft basics, structural parts and construction, basic aircraft flying instrument, the aviation industry.

    43.2 200 LEVEL COURSE DESCRIPTIONS
    	I. CSC 201: Computer Programming I(3 Credit Units: Lecture Hours Per Semester - 30, Practical Hours Per Semester - 45): Introduction to problem solving methods and algorithm development, designing, coding, debugging and documenting programmes using techniques of a good programming language style, programming language and programming algorithm development. A widely used programming language should be used in teaching the above.
    	II. CSC 205: Operating Systems I (3 Credit Units: Lecture Hours Per Semester - 30, Practical Hours Per Semester -  45): Overview of O/S: Role & Purpose, Functionality Mechanisms to Support Client- server models, hand-held devices, Design Issues influences of Security, networking, multimedia, Windows. O/S Principles:     Structuring methods, Abstraction, processes of resources, Concept of APIS Device organization interrupts
    	III. MTH 201: Mathematical Methods I  (3 Credit Units: Lecture Hours Per Semester - 45): Sequence and Series; Limits, continuity, Differentiability, Implicit Functions, Tests for convergence; sequences and series of function. Calculus: Partial differentiation, total derivatives, implicit functions change of variables. Taylor's theorem and maxima and minima function of two variables. Lagrangian multiplier; Numerical Methods: Introduction to iterative methods, Newton's method applied to finding roots. Trapezium and Simpson's rules of integration; Differential Equations: Introduction, equation of first order and first degree, separable equations, homogeneous equation, exact equations, linear equation, Bernoulli and Riccati equations. Applications to mechanics and electricity. Orthogonal and oblique trajectories. Second order equations with constant coefficients.
    	IV. GST 223 & GST 311: Entrepreneurship Studies I & II (3 Credit Units: Lecture Hours Per Semester - 45): Some of the ventures to be focused upon include the following:
    		1.Soap/Detergent, Tooth brushes and Tooth paste making
    		2. Brewing
    		3.Glassware production/Ceramic, production
    		4. Paper production
    		5.Water treatment/Conditioning/Packaging
    		6.Food processing/packaging/preservation
    		7. Vegetable oil/and Salt extractions
    		8.Fisheries/Aquaculture
    		9.Bakery.
    		The aim of this course is to develop entrepreneurial orientation and skill in students. The course exposes students to the opportunities in entrepreneurship and the basic characteristics required of successful performance as an entrepreneur, issues covered include the nature and functions of entrepreneurs, types, role demands, identification and evaluation of business opportunities, feasibility study, financing and managing growth in entrepreneurial firm, negotiations, succession, socio-cultural constraints and theories of entrepreneurship. Definition of small business, the need for students to start small business after graduation in the context of Nigeria's present socio-economic realities, the role of small business such as NDE, small and medium scale enterprises scheme, tax and other incentives, common types of small business operations. Factors which determine the decision to own and manage a business operation, business planning, financial needs, financial management techniques, marketing policies and procedures for small business interpretation of company accounts and ratio analysis, key determinants of success and failure.
    	V. GST 225: Contemporary Health Issues (2 Credit Units: Lecture Hours Per Semester - 30)Diet, exercise and health, nutritional deficiency diseases, malaria, other infections, hypertension, organ failure, air-borne diseases, sexually transmitted diseases, cancer and its prevention, sickle cell disease. HIV/AIDS: Introduction, epidemiology of HIV, natural history of HIV infection, transmission of predisposing factors to HIV, Impact of HIV/AIDS on the society, management of HIV infection, prevention of HIV. Drugs and Society: sources of drugs, classification of drugs, dosage forms and routes of drug administration, adverse drug reactions, drug abuse and misuse, rational drug use and irrational drug use. Human kinetics and health education: personal care and appearance, exercise and health, personality and relationship, health emotions, stress, mood modifiers, refusal to tobacco, alcohol and other psychoactive drugs.
    	VI. GST 211: Environment and Sustainable Development (2 Credit Units: Lecture Hours Per Semester - 30): Man-his origin and nature. Introduction to the various areas of science and technology. Man and his cosmic environment, scientific methodology, science and technology in the society and service of man. Renewable and non-renewable resources-man and his energy resources. Elements of environmental studies. Environmental effects of chemical plastics, textiles, wastes and other materials. Chemical and radiochemical hazards.
    	VII. MTH 205: Linear Algebral Sets (3 Credit Units: Lecture Hours Per Semester - 45); Relations; Mappings; Orders; Groups; Rings; Integra in single variable, theory of equations; inequalities; algebra or linear equations;  Eigen-vales and eigenvectors and Boolean algebra with applications.
    	VIII. STA 231: Statistics Computing (2 Credit Units: Lecture Hours Per Semester - 30, Practical Hours Per Semester - 30): Uses of computers in statistical computing. Introduction to package. Word Star, WordPerfect, Spread Sheets, SYSTAT, D.Base, C-stat, MINETAB,SPSS. Use of BASIC and FORTRAN programmes in solving problems.
    	IX. CSC 202: Computer Programming Il (3 Credit Units: Lecture Hours Per Semester - 30, Practical Hours Per Semester - 45): Principles of good programming, structured programming concepts, Debugging and testing, string processing, internal searching and sorting, recursion. Use a programming language different from that in CSC 201.E.g.C-Language
    	X. CSC 204: Fundamentals of Data Structures (3 Credit Units: Lecture Hours Per Semester - 30, Practical Hours Per Semester - 45): Data representation in memory,Stack and Heap allocation,trees.Run time Storage management; Pointers and References,linked structures.  
    	XI. CSC 218: Foundation of Sequential Programming (3 Credit Units: Lecture Hours Per Semester - 30, Practical Hours Per Semester - 45): The relationships between H/L languages and the computer architecture that underlies their implementation: basic machine architecture, assembles specification and translation of P/L block structured languages, parameter passing mechanisms.
    	XII. CSC 208: Discrete Structure (3 Credit Units: Lecture Hours Per Semester - 30, Lecture Hours Per Semester - 45): Basic Set Theory: Basic definitions, Relations, Equivalence Relations Partition, Ordered Sets. Boolean Algebra & Lattices, Logic, Graph theory: Directed and Undirected graphs, Graph Isomorphism, Basic Graph Theorems, Matrices; Integer and Real matrices, Boolean Matrices, Matrices med m, Path matrices. Adjacency Vectors/Matrices: Path adjacency matrix, Numerical & Boolean Adjacency matrices. Applications to counting, Discrete Probability Generating Functions.
    	XIII. CSC 212: Computer Hardware (3 Credit Units: Lecture Hours Per Semester - 30, Practical Hours Per Semester - 45): Computer circuits; diode arrays, PIAs etc., Integrated circuits fabrication process. Use of MSI, LSI and VLSI IC' hardware Design. Primary and Secondary memories; core memory, etc. Magnetic devices; disks, tapes, video disks etc. Peripheral devices; printers, CRT's, keyboards, character recognition. Operational amplifiers; Analog-to-digital and Digital-to-analog converter.
    	XIV. PHY 202: Electric Circuits and Electronics (3 Credit Units: Lecture Hours Per Semester - 30, Practical Hours Per Semester - 45): D.C. Circuits; Kirchoffs Laws, sources of end and current, network analysis and circuit theorems. A.C. Circuits. Inductance, capacitance, the transformer, sinusoidal wave-forms run and circuit, Q factor, resonance, Network analysis and circuit field effect transistors, bipolar transistors, Characteristics and quivalent circuits, amplifiers, feedback, oscillators.  
    	XV. MTH 204: Linear Algebra II (3 Credit Units: Lecture Hours Per Semester - 45): Vector Vector spaces, subspaces, sum direct, sum of spaces, Linea of Linear mappings, Kernel, image, Rank nullity   on matrices Algebra of Matrices - Elementary operations Determinants echelon forms. Row/Colum rank of matrix; Linear Equation - Homogeneous and Non-homogeneous Similarity to diagonal and triangular matrices.
    	XVI. GST 222: Communication in English II (2 Credit Units: Lecture Hours Per Semester - 30): Logical presentation of papers; Phonetics; Instruction on lexis; Art of public speaking and oral communication; Figures of speech; Précis; Report writing

  43.3 300 LEVEL COURSE DESCRIPTIONS 
    	I. CSC 301: Structured Programming (3 Credit Units:Lecture Hours Per Semester - 30, Practical Hours Per Semester - 45): Structured programming elements, structured design principles, abstraction modularity, stepwise refinement, structured design techniques. Teaching of a structured programming language etc.
    	II. CSC 305: Operating System II (3 Credit Units: Lecture Hours Per Semester - 45): Concurrency: States & State diagrams Structures, Dispatching and Context Switching; interrupts; Concurrent execution; Mutual exclusion problem and some solutions Deadlock; Models and mechanisms (Semaphores, monitors etc.) Producer-Scheduling & Dispatching, Memory Management: Overlays, replacement policies, working sets and Trashing, Caching.  
    	III. CSC 315: Computer Architecture and Organization I (3 Credit Units: Lecture Hours Per Semester - 45): Fundamental building blocks, logic expressive immunization, sum of product forms. Register transfer notation, physical considerations. Data representation, and number bases, fixed and floating-point systems, representation memory systems organization and architecture.
    	IV. CSC 321: System Analysis and Design (3 Credit Units: Lecture Hours Per Semester - 30, Practical Hours Per Semester - 45): System Concept; System Development Life Cycle. Analysis: Fact gathering Techniques, data flow diagrams, Process description data modelling. System Design: Structure Charts, form designs, security, automated Tools for design.
    	V. CSC 333: Computational Science and Numerical Methods (3 Credit Units: Lecture Hours Per Semester - 45): Operations research, numerical computation, graphical computation, modelling and simulation, high performance computation.
    	VI. GST 311: Entrepreneurship Studies II (2 Credit Units: Lecture Hours Per Semester - 30, Practical Hours Per Semester - 30): To expose the students to a greater depth in the practical aspects of entrepreneurship, particularly the development of skills. The aim is to distinguish Covenant University graduates from graduates of other institutions of higher learning. Practicum: All students are sent to the entrepreneurial village in-groups for skill acquisition in different specialization fields. Mini trade fairs will be organized where the students will display all their products. This program includes both theoretical and practical aspects of entrepreneurship. Production and Quality control of entrepreneurship material Management will be taught. These specialized fields include: tailoring, carpentry, millinery (hat making),mechanical, catering, shoe making, interior decoration, software development, candle and soap making, fishery. farming, snail rearing, poultry farming, piggery, textile development (tie & dye), cooking, paint manufacturing. Photography, Ice-cream making, saloon and barbing etc.
    	VII. CSC 311: Operations Research (3 Credit Units: Lecture Hours Per Semester - 45): Nature and scope of operations research. Linear programming and graphical, simplex (including big M and two-phase) methods. Sensitivity analysis. Duality theory. Transportation and assignment problems. Network analysis: CPM and PERT. Inventory theory and applications. Sequencing and scheduling.
    	VIII. CSC 399: Industrial Training II (3 Credit Units): Student's Industrial work experience of 3 months' duration. Students' reports will be presented in a seminar.
    	IX. CSC 310: Algorithms and Complexity Analysis (3 Credit Units: Lecture Hours Per Semester - 45): Basic algorithmic analysis: Asymptotic analysis of Upper and average complexity bounds; standard Complexity Classes Time and space tradeoffs in algorithms analysis recursive algorithms. Algorithmic Strategies: Fundamental computing algorithms: Numerical algorithms, sequential and binary search algorithms; sorting algorithms, Binary Search tress, Hash tables, graphs &its representation.
    	X. CSC 302: Object-Oriented Programming (3 Credit Units: Lecture Hours Per Semester - 30, Practical Hours Per Semester - 45): Basic OOP Concepts: Classes, Objects, inheritance, polymorphism, Data Abstraction, Tools for developing, Compiling, interpreting and debugging ,Java Programs, Java Syntax and data objects, operators. Central flow constructs, objects and classes programming, Arrays, methods. Exceptions, Applets and the Abstract, OLE, Persistence, Window To cilil Laboratory exercises in an OOP Language.
    	XI. CSC 304: Data Management l (3 Credit Units: Lecture Hours Per Semester - 45): Information storage & retrieval, Information management applications, Information capture and representation, analysis &indexing, search, retrieval, information privacy; integrity, security; scalability, efficiency and effectiveness. Introduction to database systems: Components of database systems DBMS functions, Database architecture and data independence use of database query language.
    	XII. CSC 314: Computer Architecture and Organization II (3 Credit Units: Lecture Hours Per Semester - 45): Memory system, general; characteristics or memory operation.(Technology-magnetic recording semi-conductor memory, coupled devices, magnetic bubble). Memory addressing, memory hierarchy, virtual memory control systems. Hardware control, micro programmed control, asynchronous control, I/C control. Introduction to the methodology of faulty tolerant computing.
    	XIII. CSC 316: Compiler Construction (3 Credit Units: Lecture Hours Per Semester - 45): Review of compilers assemblers and interpreters, structure and functional aspects of a typical compiler, syntax semantics and pragmatics, functional relationship between lexical analysis, expression analysis and code generation. Internal form of course programme. Use of a standard compiler (FORTRAN<COBOL/PL) as a working vehicle. Error detection and recovery. Grammars and languages: the parsing problem;
    	XIV. CSC 332: Survey of Programming Languages (3 Credit Units: Lecture Hours Per Semester - 30, Practical Hours Per Semester - 45): Languages, brief survey of programming paradigms(procedural languages, object-oriented languages, functional languages declarative-non-algorithmic languages, scripting languages)description: syntactic structure (expression notations, abstract syntax tree, lexical syntax, grammars for expressions, variants overview of formal semantics, denotation semantics, axiomatic semantics, operational semantics); declarations and types: the concept of types, declaration models (binding, visibility, scope, and lifetime), overview of type-checking, garbage collection; abstraction mechanisms: procedures, function, and iterations as abstraction mechanisms, parameterization mechanisms (reference vs. value), activation records and storage management, type parameters and parameterized types, modules in programming languages; object oriented language paradigm; functional and logic language paradigms.
    	XV. GST 324: Leadership Skills (3 Credit Units: Lecture Hours Per Semester - 45): Transformation is a fundamental shift in the deep orientation of a person, organization or society such that the world is seen in new ways and new actions and results become possible that were impossible prior to the transformation. Transformation happens at the individual level but must be embedded in collective practices and norms for the transformation to be sustained. Leadership Development Programme (LDP) proposes novel approaches to teaching and learning, which emphasizes the practical involvement of participants. It is interactive and involves exercises and actual implementation of breakthrough projects by teams that make difference in the lives of the target listening, conversation, emotional intelligence, breakthrough  enrolment conversation and forming and leading teams will be taught.  
    	XVI. CSC 308: Formal Methods and Software Development(3 Credit Units: Lecture Hours Per Semester - 45): An overview of formal methods and software development, formal methods, software development overview, overview of software design, analysis and design tools, design strategies and user interface basics, overview of design complexity. software implementation, testing, maintenance and case tools.
    	XVII. CSC 334: Numerical Analysis (3 Credit Units: Lecture Hours Per Semester - 45): Polynomial and splines approximation. Orthogonal polynomials and chebysev approximations. Direct and interactive methods for the solution of systems of linear equations. Eigen value problem - power methods, inverse power methods. Pivoting strategies.

  43.4 400 LEVEL COURSE DESCRIPTIONS
    	I. CSC 401:Organization of Programming Languages (3 Credit Units: Lecture Hours Per Semester - 45): Language definition structure. Data types and structures, Review of basic data types, including lists and tress, control structure and data flow, Run-time consideration, interpretative languages, lexical analysis and parsing. Pre-requisite - CSC.201,212,304,302.
    	II. CSC 411: Artificial Intelligence  (3 Credit Units: Lecture Hours Per Semester - 45): Introduction to artificial intelligence understanding natural languages, knowledge representation, expert systems, pattern recognition, the language LISP.
    	III. CSC 403: Software Engineering (4 Credit Units: Lecture Hours Per Semester - 60): Software design: software architecture, design patterns, O.O.P class browsers and related tools, component-based computing. Software tools and Environment requirements analysis and design modelling tools, testing tools. tool integration mech.
    	IV. CSC 421: Net-Centric Computing (3 Credit Units: Lecture Hours Per Semester - 45): Distributed Computing, Mobile & Wireless computing, Network Security; Client/Server Computing (using the web), Building Web Applications.
    	V. CSC 417: Research Methodology in Computer Science (2 Credit Units: Lecture Hours Per Semester - 30): Definition and Characteristics of research; Types of Research; Main components of any research work. Problem identification; Criteria for prioritizing problems for research; Analysing the problem; Formulation of problem statement; Research Question; Investigation Question; Measurement issues; Hypothesis-Qualities of a good hypothesis; Null Hypothesis &Alternative Hypothesis; Hypothesis Testing. Uses of literature review; source of information; formulation of Research Objectives. Quantitative & Qualitative Approach; Study population; Variables; Sampling; Sampling size determination; Plan for data collection; Methods of data collection; Plan for data Processing & Analysis; Ethical considerations. Features of a good research design-Exploratory Research design, Descriptive research design, Experimental research design -concept, types and uses. Tools of Research. Reference Management software like Zotero/Mendeley, software for paper formatting like LaTeX/MS Office, software for detection of plagiarism.
    	VI. CSC 441: Human-Computer Interaction (HCI) (2 Credit Units: Lecture Hours Per Semester - 30): Foundations of HCI, Principles of GUI, GUI toolkits; Human-centred software evaluation and development; GUI design and programming.  
    	VII. CSC 423: Computer Networks/Communication (3 Credit Units: Lecture Hours Per Semester - 45, Practical Hours Per Semester - 45): Introduction, wares, Fourier analysis, measure of communication, channel characteristics, transmission media, noise and distortion, modulation and demodulation. multiplexing, TDM FDM and FCM Parallel and serial transmission (synchronous vs. asynchronous). Bus structures and loop systems, computer network Examples and design consideration, data switching principles broadcast techniques, network structure for packet switching, protocols, description of network e.g. ARPANET, etc.
    	VIII. CSC 419: Project (6 Credit Units: Practical Hours Per Semester - 45): Students should embark on work that will lead to substantial software development under the supervision of a member of staff. Seminar presentations of Chapters 1-5 of their dissertations are required in this semester.
    	IX. CSC 404: Data Management II (3 Credit Units: Lecture Hours Per Semester - 30, Practical Hours Per Semester - 45): Rational database: mapping conceptual schema to rational schema; database query languages (SQL) concept of functional dependencies & multi-valued dependencies. Transaction processing; distributed databases.
    	X. CSC 416: Compiler Construction Il  (3 Credit Units: Lecture Hours Per Semester - 45): Grammars and languages, recognizers, Top-down and bottom-up language Run-time storage Organization, The use of display storage allocation.LR grammars and analyzers. Construction of run-time variables. Code generation. Optimization/Translator with systems.  
    	XI. CSC 482: Modelling and Simulation Process (3 Credit Units: Lecture Hours Per Semester - 45, Practical Hours Per Semester - 45): Some Basic Definitions and Uses, Simulation. Queues and Basic components, Kendal notation, Queuing rules, Little's Law Queuing networks, Special/types of queues .Stochastic Processes; Discrete state and continuous state processes Markov processes, Birth-Death Processes, Poisson Processes Random Numbers; types of Random Number Exercises.
    	XII. CSC 416: Project Management (3 Credit Units: Lecture Hours Per Semester - 45, Practical Hours Per Semester - 45): Team Management, Project Scheduling, Software measurement and estimation techniques, Risk analysis, Software quality assurance, Software Configuration Management, Project Management tools.
    	XIII. CSC 452: Formal Models of Computation  (3 Credit Units: Lecture Hours Per Semester - 45): Automata theory: Roles of models in computation. Finite state Automata, Push-down Automata, Formal Grammars, Parsing, Relative powers of formal models. Basic computability: Turing machines, Universal Turing Machines, Church's thesis, solvability and Decidability.
    	XIV. CSC 436: Cloud Computing (2 Credit Units: Lecture Hours Per Semester - 30): This course provides a hands-on comprehensive study of Cloud concepts and capabilities across the various Cloud service models including Infrastructure as a Service (laaS), Platform as a Service (Paas), Software as a Service (SaaS), and Business Process as a Service (BPaaS).
    	

44.0 MATRICULATION AND COURSE REGISTRAION
	A student admitted to this Institution for the first time to pursue a degree (including transfer students) will be required to take oath and sign the matriculation register. It shall also be mandatory for all students to register for courses at the beginning of the semester. Registration for courses shall end three weeks after the commencement of lectures. Courses are quantified in credit units. A unit equals 12 hours of lectures (i.e. one hour a week per semester) OR 36 hours of laboratory, fieldwork, practical/practicum, and studio practice OR 6 months of industrial training. One semester has a minimum of 12 weeks of lectures.
	44.1 COURSE ASSESSMENT
		(a) Every course assessment must consist of continuous assessment (30%) and examination (70%).
		(b) Continuous assessment in the department shall not be more than 30%.
		(c) The pass mark for every course assessment is 45%.
		(d) The grading system is as follows:
			i. Scores = 70-100
			   Grade = A
			   Grade Point = 5
			ii. Scores = 60-69
			   Grade = B
			   Grade Point = 4
			iii. Scores = 50-59
			   Grade = C
			   Grade Point = 3
			iv. Scores = 45-49
			   Grade = D
			   Grade Point = 2
			V. Scores = 40-44
			   Grade = E
			   Grade Point = 1
			vi. Scores = 0-39
			   Grade = F
			   Grade Point = 0
	
    44.2 SYSTEM OF TEACHING
		The system of teaching adopted by the department is lecture cum tutorial. While the lectures' sessions are formal, the tutorials are quasi formal. Tutorials are conducted by junior brief notes, give copy reference, and discuss facts that support or refer to pages and passages in texts. Attendance registers are marked. Attendance carries a maximum score of ten.
	
    44.3 QUALITY/CONTROL ASSURANCE
		To ensure that standard is maintained, there is a Quality Control Committee which is headed by a Senior Lecturer. This unit evaluate courseware, submitted at the beginning of the Semester by Lecturers which includes teaching plans, course descriptions, suggested texts and as many tutorial questions as possible that will cover every topic in the synopsis. These are vetted to ensure that, all the questions are up to standard and that they cover all the topics associated with a course. This document is eventually made available to students.
	
    44.4 SYSTEM OF EXAMINATION
		The semester examination comprises a set of questions from which the students are expected to answer at least four questions out of six. Some Lecturers give a question or questions they tag compulsory. This usually depends on the importance or premium they place on the specific areas. Such areas are usually emphasized and sufficiently highlighted because of their relevance. Some Lecturers give multiple choice or objective questions to cover wider areas of curriculum. Each examination in a semester shall carry equal marks of hundred (100) percent, divided into seventy (70) percent for examination and (30) percent for test/assignments/oral examination/attendance. A letter grade and numerical point shall be awarded to each student based on his/her total scores on all the evaluation criteria. Examinations are written within a period of two weeks. Sufficient examination materials are provided ahead of the time for examination and time table for invigilation. Invigilation is done by academic staff with non-academic staff can assist in some cases. The time table for examination is displayed on the Faculty/Departmental Notice Boards at least two weeks before the beginning of examinations. The Faculty Officer is present at examinations.
	
    44.5 CONTINUOUS ASSESSMENT
		The system of continuous assessment is through occasionally examinations. In addition, the conventional theoretical examination is executed.
	
    44.6 EXAMINATION REGULATIONS
		In assessing a student for withdrawal or probation, Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) would be used as a guide.
			(i) If a student's CGPA is below 1.50 at the end of a particular year of study, such a student earns a period of probation for one academic session.
			(ii) Subject to the conditions for withdrawal and probation, a student may be allowed to repeat failed courses at the next available opportunity, provided that the total number of credit units carried during the Semester does not exceed 24,and the Grade Point earned at all attempts shall count towards the CGPA.
			(iii) A candidate whose Cumulative Grade Point Average is below 1.50 at the end of a particular period of probation would be required to withdraw from the department.
	44.7 GRADE POINT AVERAGE (GPA) and CUMMULATIVE GRADE POINT AVERAGE (CGPA)
		Performance in any semester is reported in Grade Point Average courses taken during the semester. The GPA is obtained by of Credit Units(CU) assigned to that course. These are eventually summed up and divided by the total number of units taken for that semester. An example is demonstrated in the table overleaf.
			I. i. Credit Unit(s): Varies with respect to contact hours assigned to a course
			   ii. Percent score(s) = 70-100
			   iii. Letter Grades = A
			   iv. Grade Point (GP) = 5
			   v. Grade Point Average (GPA) = Derived by multiplying the Credit Unit(s) by the Grade Point and dividing the sum by the Total Credit Units
			   vi. Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) = 4.50 - 5.00
			   vii. Class of Degree = First Class
			II. i. Credit Unit(s): Varies with respect to contact hours assigned to a course
			   ii. Percent score(s) = 60-69
			   iii. Letter Grades = B
			   iv. Grade Point (GP) = 4
			   v. Grade Point Average (GPA) = Derived by multiplying the Credit Unit(s) by the Grade Point and dividing the sum by the Total Credit Units
			   vi. Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) = 3.50 - 4.49
			   vii. Class of Degree = Second Class Upper
			III. i. Credit Unit(s): Varies with respect to contact hours assigned to a course
			   ii. Percent score(s) = 50-59
			   iii. Letter Grades = C
			   iv. Grade Point (GP) = 3
			   v. Grade Point Average (GPA) = Derived by multiplying the Credit Unit(s) by the Grade Point and dividing the sum by the Total Credit Units
			   vi. Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) = 2.50 - 3.49
			   vii. Class of Degree = Second Class Lower
			IV. i. Credit Unit(s): Varies with respect to contact hours assigned to a course
			   ii. Percent score(s) = 45-49
			   iii. Letter Grades = D
			   iv. Grade Point (GP) = 2
			   v. Grade Point Average (GPA) = Derived by multiplying the Credit Unit(s) by the Grade Point and dividing the sum by the Total Credit Units
			   vi. Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) = 1.50 - 2.
			   vii. Class of Degree = Third Class
			V. i. Credit Unit(s): Varies with respect to contact hours assigned to a course
			   ii. Percent score(s) = 40-44
			   iii. Letter Grades = E
			   iv. Grade Point (GP) = 1
			   v. Grade Point Average (GPA) = Derived by multiplying the Credit Unit(s) by the Grade Point444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444 and dividing the sum by the Total Credit Units
			   vi. Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) = 1.00 - 1.49
			   vii. Class of Degree = Pass
			VI. i. Credit Unit(s): Varies with respect to contact hours assigned to a course
			   ii. Percent score(s) = 0-39
			   iii. Letter Grades = F
			   iv. Grade Point (GP) = 0
			   v. Grade Point Average (GPA) = Derived by multiplying the Credit Unit(s) by the Grade Point and dividing the sum by the Total Credit Units
			   vi. Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) = <1.00
		Students who are unable to graduate at the end of the four-year degree programme are allowed to carry over such courses into the following session. This period is referred to as the first spill-over. Failure in any course during the first spill-over which leads into a second year would mean the student will graduate with a Pass graduate at the end of the second spill-over are asked to withdraw from the Institution.  
		44.7.1 CALCULATION OF GPA AND CGPA
			i. Multiply the the respective credit unit for each course by your Grade Point. e.g Let's assume you have an A (5 points) in a course like CSC 321 (3 Credit Unit). Your total grade point for CSC 321 is 3 x 5 = 15.
			ii. Calculate the same for the other courses.
			iii. Total your grade point for all the courses.
			iv. Total the Credit Units you took for the entire semester (Maximum is 24).
			v. To find your GPA, you will do Total Grade Point ÷ Total Credit Unit = GPA.
			vi. For your CGPA, you will add your(Previous Total Grade Point + Present Total Grade Point)/(Previous Total Credit Unit + Present Total Credit Unit) = CGPA

45.0 CODE OF CONDUCT FOR EXAMINATION
	45.1 GUIDELINES FOR SITTING FOR AN EXAMINATION
		1. To permit students to sit for any examination, they must satisfy the following conditions:
			a. They must have registered for that course.
			b. They must have achieved minimum level of attendance (that is,75%).
			c. They must have met all other departmental requirements vis-à-vis course work, practical, assignments and projects.
			d. Students are to ensure they know the dates, time and venue of the examination and their registration number.
		2. To ensure that(1)is complied with;
			a. The registrar shall supply each Department with a list of registered students which shall be placed on the departmental notice boards immediately.
			b. Examination cards shall be prepared by the registrar for distribution to students at least 2 weeks before the semester examination begins. These cards will be prepared on the basis of the reconciled registered students list.
	
    45.2 INSTRUCTIONS
		1. A student shall be at the examination hall at least 30 minutes before the scheduled commencement time of the examination and 10 minutes to the start of the exam, students are to.  
			a. Read and follow the instructions on the question paper Students should only write their examination serial number on the answer booklet, answer sheets or other attachments.
			b. Fill in their particulars in the examination attendance list and other information as required by the Chief Invigilator.
			c. Ensure that, the correct question paper is supplied with sufficient pages. All rough work shall be done on the answer booklet.
			d. In the event that the candidate has been supplied with an incorrect examination paper, the invigilators must be immediately informed.
			e. All students must check their pockets, pencil case, calculator etc. to ensure that, they have not mistakenly brought incriminating material into the examination hall. If there are such items, they have to be removed from the candidates by the invigilators.
			f. Students shall not bring cell phones into the examination hall.
		2. All students shall provide their writing materials, calculator and drawing instruments where necessary or any other item authorized by the invigilator.
		3. Students are NOT allowed to bring food into the examination hall.
		4. Students shall be searched by appropriate authority before being allowed to enter the examination hall.
		5. No student shall be allowed to borrow any writing material from another student during the course of an examination.
		6. All students shall sign the examination attendance register at the start and also at the end of the examination.
		7. Students who arrive more than 45 minutes after commencement of an examination will not be allowed to take the examination.
		8. It is possible that an invigilator allows a student to leave an examination hall during the course of an examination provided that:
			a. The period does not fall within the first 20 minute of the examination or during the last 15 minutes of the examination.
			b. The student submits his/her answer sheet to the Invigilator before leaving the examination hall and signs out if he/she does not intend to come back.
		9. It is possible to re-admit a student who leaves an examination hall on the permission of the Invigilator provided that the student was under the surveillance of the Invigilator or any other person assigned by the Invigilator during the period of his/her absence from the examination hall.
		10. It is mandatory for students to show and display their examinations and identity cards during examination.
		11. It is mandatory for every student to leave any hand-bag, backpack and/or other unauthorized materials outside the examination hall or at a place designated by the Invigilator.
		12. It is required of every student to write their examination number only (excluding their names) distinctly and correctly on all spaces provided in every answer booklet and on any separate sheet of paper provided for use during the examination. The use of scrap or rough paper is not allowed during an examination. Students are prohibited from writing on their question paper(s) and other valid documents such as clearance form, examination or identity cards etc. Any form of rough work must be done behind the answer booklet(s) and neatly crossed out afterward.
		13. Students are not allowed to either answer the questions before the commencement of the examination or to continue writing after the expiration of examination time.
		
		1. Pictures, notes, programmed calculator and other materials or devices through any person during their examination or unauthorized items whether of relevance to the course being examined or not into the examination hall except as may be stated in the rules of a particular examination.
		2. It is prohibited for any student to copy from another student or allow any student to copy from him/her during an examination.
		3. Any student suspected of cheating during an examination is not expected to:
			a. Destroy or refuse to surrender any suspected incriminating material to the invigilator.
			b. Chew and/or swallow any suspected incriminating material
			c. Run out of the examination hall with or without the suspected incriminating material
			d. Refuse to sign the examination malpractice report form Or;
			e. Refuse to appear before an examination malpractice investigation committee during his/her period of study at the institute.
		4. It is prohibited for any student to be impersonated or to impersonate another student during an examination.
		5. It is prohibited for any student to be in possession of a leaked examination question paper and/or marking guide or model answers
		6. It is prohibited for any staff or student to aid or abet examination malpractice in any form.
		7. It is prohibited for any student to exit the examination hall without the authorized permission of the invigilators
		8. It is prohibited for any student to communicate either by talking or whispering to another student during an examination.
		9. It is prohibited for any student to drink, smoke, make noise or cause any form of disturbance during an examination.
		10. It is prohibited for any student to either insult or physically  
			a. Impersonator and the impersonated or where an outer signs the examination register on behalf of a bonafide student.
			b. Any student who destroys or mutilates evidence that will be used to establish a case against them.
			c. Falsely incriminating an invigilator, lecturer, staff or student in a case of examination malpractice.
			d. Repeated misconduct that is a student who commits examination malpractice as a second time offender.
			e. Being in possession of fake certificates.
			f. Any other conduct that the examination malpractice committee deems fit to lead to suspension.
			g. Bringing in unauthorized materials into the examination hall such as mobile phones, notes, textbooks etc.
			h. Exposing one's answer script to be copied by another student.
			i. Writing projects for students by other persons.
			j. Exchanging answer scripts and question papers during an examination.
			k. Unruly behavior in the examination hall.
			l. Any form of collaboration to cheat during an examination.
			m. Refusal to complete the examination malpractice form.
			n. Writing on question paper during an examination.
			o. Failure to comply with invigilators instructions during an examination.
			p. Any other act or conduct that the examination malpractices committee deems fit to lead to expulsion.
		2. The invigilators reserve the right to give lawful instructions to students for the successful conduct of an examination and the students must obey such lawful instructions.
		3. The examination malpractices committee also reserves the right to award any other punishment it deems fit depending on the circumstances of each case and the evidence available to it.  
1. It is expected of each Faculty to set up an Examination as the Chairman with members from all the Departments within the Faculty.
2. If a student is found guilty, or is suspected of violating as possible on the examination malpractice report form. This is completed by the invigilator(s) and the Examination Officer who will in turn forward it to the appropriate quarters for further action.
	
    45.3 APPEALS AGAINST MALPRACTICE DECISIONS
		1. Any affected student who believes that they have not been given fair hearing, have the opportunity to appeal to the academic board through the office of the Provost. Submission of petitions must be within 5 days of receipt of the letter conveying the academic board resolution.
		2.The Provost may admit the appeal and, if he/she believes it has merit will represent it to the Academic Board for re-assessment. The decision of the Academic Board after the re-assessment shall be final.
	
    45.4 REMARKING OF SCRIPTS
		1. An appeal for remarking must be submitted on completion of a prescribed form, to the Head of Department, Dean of the Faculty, the Registrar, within 5 days of official release of examination results.
		2. On receipt of the appeal, the Head of Department shall:
			a. Retrieve the script or booklet and assign to two different Lecturers using different colour ball pen, other than the one used by the original Examiner. The average of the two scores  considered as the final or new score for that course.  
			b. Prepare the report of the reassessment and forward recommendation to the Chairman of the Academic Board through the Dean of the Faculty within 4 days of the official receipt of the script or booklet.
			c. Correct the original result as may be approved by the Chairman of the Academic Board or Committee of the Academic Board and notify the registrar accordingly.
	
    45.5 EXAMINATION RESULTS
		The guidelines for consideration of examinations results are as follows:
			1. The syllabus approved by the Academic Board shall specify the number and titles of compulsory and electives to be examined by all programs of studies.
			2. The total of continuous assessment score and end-of-course examination score both of which are compulsory shall be the overall score of a student in a course and it shall be as provided in the course curriculum.
			3. The academic board may grant permission to postpone any examination for a student.
			4. A student who is absent from all examinations in a semester without an acceptable reason to support their absence shall be deemed to have voluntarily withdrawn from the institute.
			5. Absence of a student from any examination shall be recorded as failure of that exam(s) except on permissible grounds.
			6. Failure by a student to complete his project/dissertations/thesis within the time scheduled will attract a penalty fee of an amount to be recommended by the institute.
			7. A student may register and attend lectures for a failed course in the corresponding semester of the following academic session.
			8. It is the duty of a student to report at appropriate time any case of sickness that may prevent them from writing or completing examination or any other special case that may affect their academic performance to their course coordinator, supervisor or Student Affairs Officer.
	
    45.6 REQUIREMENTS FOR STUDENTS' PROBATION, TRANSFER AND WITHDRAWAL
		1. Students shall be placed on probation where their academic performance measured by the cumulative grade point average is below 1.5 at the end of a year of study. Such students shall register for the courses failed as well as some courses from the next level provided the total credit load taken shall not exceed the maximum allowed.
		2. A student whose CGPA falls below 1.00 at the end of the probation period shall be required to withdraw from the programme of study.
		3. However, the conditions for withdrawal of students are as follows:
			a. A candidate whose cumulative grade point average is below 1.5 at the end of a particular year of probation should be required to withdraw from the programme.
 			b. If a student has utilized probation on two occasions and still fails to pull out of the probation zone.
			c. If having been earlier re-coursed, a student fails to obtain the minimum requirement for promotion in any session.
			d. If a student fails to pass subjects carried over from the previous session
			e. If a student is found medically unfit to continue with the course.
			f. If a student is found cheating during any examination.
			g. If a student fails to sit for any examination without acceptable reasons such as confirmed medical situation, inferno, pregnancy, natural disasters or civil disturbance.
			h. If a personnel is dismissed or retired on disciplinary grounds from the service.  
			i. If in the opinion of the commandant a student is uft is remain in the institute.
			j. A student withdrawn for examination malpractice shall nor be re-admitted into the Institute.
			
46.0 LIBRARY SERVICES
	I. Opening Hours: The Library's opening hours vary according to the following schedules:
		(1) Semester Period
			i. Monday-Friday: 9.00 a.m.-6.00p.m.
			ii. Saturday: 9.00 a.m.-2.00p.m.
			iii. Holidays (Public and University): Closed
	
    46.1 MEMBERSHIP
		The use of the Library is normally permitted to registered users only. Registration as a Library user is open to all students.
	
    46.2 Main Services Rendered: The following main services are offered:
		a. Reference services.
		b. Readers' advisory services.
		c. Services to researches.
		d. Exhibitions.
		e. Current awareness services.
	
    46.3 LIBRARY RULES AND REGULATIONS
		a. No book may be removed from the library without the Librarian. The janitor in charge of the exit is authorized to present such items for inspection.
		b. The Librarian may restrict or prohibit the borrowing of any book or periodical each from the open access collection on condition laid down by the Librarian.
		c. All books borrowed by Library users must be returned on the approved date. Fine exist for defaulters.
		d. Returned books may be renewed by the Library users provided such are not required by other users.
		e. The Librarian may recall a book issued to any Library user. In such cases, the book must be returned within three days of recall.
		f. Materials of special nature such as tapes and irreplaceable works may be borrowed only with the permission of the Librarian.
		g. Library users are at all times responsible for any book, which has been issued in their name and this responsibility ends only when the book has been returned to the Library and the issued records have been cancelled.
	
    46.4 PENALTIES FOR VARIOUS OFFENCES OF THE LIBRARY
		a. Delinquent student borrowers who fail to pay their accumulated fines will be barred from writing their semester or degree examinations or examinations results or certificates confiscated until the fines are paid.
		b. Delinquent student borrowers who refuse to return library books and pay the fines will not sit for their examinations. If they sit for their examinations, their results and certificate will be withheld until they pay for the books and fines. The cost of each of such books will be five times the unit cost.
		c. Users who mark, deface, damage or mutilate library books will pay for such books, the amount involved will be five times the unit cost of each book.
		d. Those who steal any library book will be summarily dismissed from Institute.
		e. Allegedly lost books will be paid for. The cost of each of such books will be five times the unit cost.

47.0 DRESS CODE
	The Institute attaches a great importance to modest and good dressing. Your dressing adds value to your personality, confidence and self-worth. This saying is very instructive, Dress the way you would like to be addressed". The Institute expects all  cards while on the campus or on excursions and institutional engagements outside the campus.
	
    47.1 DRESS CODE FOR ALL STUDENTS
		a. During normal lectures, public lectures, special ceremonies, Matriculation, Founder's Day, Convocation and examinations, all students must be corporately dressed. To be corporately dressed connotes a smart suit, skirt and blouse, or a smart dress with a pair of neat, covered shoes or sandals. Male students must tuck in their shirts and collar should not be left flying.
		b. Students may wear “native” attire or foreign wear, suits and other forms of formal dressing.
		c. Dresses should be of knee length. The wearing of strapless blouses, sleeveless dresses or dresses with very tiny singlet-like straps (Spaghetti strap), without a jacket, is strictly prohibited.
		d. Over-clinging clothing, including hipster trousers, are not allowed.
		e. Revealing blouses, especially the type of blouse that does not cover the burst or navel, are not allowed.
		f. Transparent dresses must be worn with singlet or other forms of inner wears. Ordinary transparent dresses are prohibited.
		g. Wearing bathroom slippers is not allowed in and around the lecture halls.
		h. Female student are advised to wear hairstyles that are neat and becoming of a responsible citizen.
		i. Students may wear trouser suits and jeans but tight or alinging trousers are not allowed.
		j. Earring and necklaces may be used by female students,  
		k. Piercing of any part of the body, other than the ear (for earrings), is prohibited. Male students shall not use earrings
		l. Fastening of trousers below the waistline is not allowed.
		m. Wearing of long-sleeved shirts, without buttoning the sleeves well or folding, as desired, is not allowed.
	
    47.2 PENALTIES FOR IMPROPER DRESSING
		a. Erring students shall be sent out of the lecture room or examination hall.
		b. A warning letter shall be issued to the erring student and a copy of the letter may be filed in his/her personal file in the Department while the parents/guardians of the erring student will be informed in writing, accordingly.
		c. In all cases, the offence shall lead to loss of credit units.
	Note: Students will earn additional credits every semester for participating and sitting for the examination of any of the listed professional examinations, satisfactory moral conduct, service to the university community, exemplary behaviour, excellence in sporting and extracurricular activities, modest dressing and general outlook.

48.0 RULES AND GUIDELINES ON STUDENTS' CLUBS AND ASSOCIATIONS
		a. Student Associations are prohibited. However, it is the policy of the Institute to encourage responsible protests in form of writing following due process. Students who so desire can join departmental faculty based or other approved associations that contribute to their academic and social well-being. For this purpose, groups seeking recognition must submit the following to the Director, students Affairs and renew same at the beginning of each session.
			i. Two copies of the proposed Constitution and Bye-Laws.
			ii. Names, matriculation numbers, and hall and faculty/departmental addresses of the Officers.
			iii. Signatures of two members of the Parents' Forum and one full-time senior staff of the University who agreed to serve as Adviser/Patron to the association.
			iv. Certification by the Adviser/Patron that at least fifty full-time students will form the nucleus of the association.
			v. Statement of purposes and proposed programmes of activities, as they relate to the expect contributions to the academic, cultural, social or recreational life of the students on campus.
			vi. Affiliations, if any, to any outside associations.
		b. Student associations may be dissolved by request of the association members or by the Director, Students' Affairs, when the association failed to file a registration form for two consecutive academic sessions, or the Registrar, for any violation of Institute's regulations and policies governing student associations.
	
    48.1 CONDUCT OF CLUB/ASSOCIATION PROGRAMMES
		a. Members' Dues & Gate-Taking: If any form of payment is to be made by members or guests to a club or associations programme, the approval of the Director, Students' Affairs should be obtained on the amount to be collected and the procedure for the collection of such money. Funds soliciting from outside bodies and individuals must be made known to the Director, Students' Affairs. Generally, indiscriminate uses of the name of the Institute or its approved clubs are not allowed. To ensure effective monitoring of programmes/activities of clubs and societies, Ten [10 ]complimentary card/invitation cards on events organized by clubs and societies should be deposited at the Students' Affairs Unit.
		b. Prizes: Clubs, associations or societies should submit evidence or any authority from sponsor of activities/programmes to the Student Affairs Unit. Prizes or evidence of the availability of the prizes should be deposited or cleared with the Director, Students' Affairs, seven [7] days before the posters for the programme/activities are displayed or any publicity whatever is given. Strict penalty awaits any Club/Association, which defaults on any of the rules and regulations of the Students Observances stipulated above. Further clarification on any of the above could be obtained from the Students' Welfare unit.
		C. Invitation of Guests to the Institute: On any occasion, when a Student Association or Club is inviting guests, the authority shall be informed through the Director of Students' Affairs, at least a week in advance so that if need be, protocol arrangements can be made.
		d. Timing of Activities: No students' activities shall normally be carried out in the night time. If activities must be carried out in the night, this shall be done under adequate lighting and with the permission of the Institute's authorities.
		e. Pasting of Bills and Posters: Indiscriminate pasting of Bills and Posters by Students' Organizations, Clubs, Societies or any individual within the University is prohibited, Bills and Posters may be pasted only on the Bill Boards provided by each organized Students Association or the University for that purpose. Erring Students/Associations may be sanctioned.  
		f. Every registered Student's Club or Association shall renew its registration annually. Renewal will be granted after an appropriate study of the annual report and financial statement of the Society or Club and an assessment of its contribution to the Institute. Accordingly, every Student's Club or Association is expected to submit its Annual Financial report and programmes along with its application for renewal. This report should include the list of names of all members and the executive members of the Club or Association. Any Students' Club or Association, which fails to submit its annual report within 14 days after the matriculation ceremony in a particular academic session, will pay a late fee as may be determine from time to time.
		g. A registration or renewal fee as may be determined from time to time shall be paid before registration or renewal.
		h. The Commandant may cancel the registration of any Students' Club or Association at any time if he/she is satisfied that the activities of the Association or Club are inimical to the interest of the Institute.
		i. All publications emanating from Student Organisations or Club must get the approval of the Director, Students' Affairs before release.
		j. Publications for the purpose of ridiculing or "bugging" fellow students or staff are not allowed.
		k. The Students Association shall give the Institute authority, through the Directorate of Students' Affairs, at least 2weeks' notice of its intention to embark on any form of activity in respect of any anniversary. Such notices shall include a list of intended activities and indicate the nature and time of such activities. The Institute shall respond to the Students' Organizations notice at least a week before the date of the event.
					   
49.0 TRANSCRIPTS
    To obtain an official Transcript from the school that's stamped and signed by either the Registrar or Provost, the following must be done:
      i. You apply to the department
      ii. The department prepares a cover letter to the Faculty
      iii. The Faculty then sends your request to the Academic Branch and it is taken to the right quaters where the request is processed.
    However, if you want the transcript stamped by just the department, the department just processes your transcript and it will be stamped and signed by them more like a result.

50.0 MISPLACED EXAM CARD
   If your exam card gets missing, kindly meet your Level Advisor immediately to make he/her aware and so that the department can issue you a note or if possible to produce another one but since exam cards are now printed from the students' portal, another can be printed and taken to the appropriate person to sign.

51.0 MISSED REGISTRATION
   When a student misses registration, it's regarded as Voluntary Withdrawal and also reflects on his/her result which could also mean that such student has giving up his/her studentship. If this happens and the student wants to resume back, such will write a Letter of Re-instatement and then continue with his/her education. Also, it's important to note that missing registration leads to missing out on Residency. Every student has a residency of the number of years they are to spend plus half of that year. For example: If you are doing a 5 years course, you have 7 and a half years while for a 4 years course, you have 6 years. When you miss registration for a semester, you will obviously not have result for that semester. You will have to redo all the courses you missed therby elapsing your residency. Most times, the end case is that most people don't get to graduate because of elapsed residency which was caused by missed registrations.

52.0  OBSERVATION OF RESULTS
    When results are ready, they are sent to the students so that they can raise observations before the results are approved by the Senate (Pending Senate Approval). When a student observes an issue with the result, he/she ought to raise the complaints immediately he/she sees the result. The procedure for raising an observation of results includes:
      i. Go through your level advisor. If you want a remarking, you will write to the deprtment requesting for a remarking of your script.
      ii. An invoice is raised for you from the Academic Branch. You will pay a sum of Five Thousand Naira Only (#5000) for the remarking and then the script is remarked by another lecturer.
    However, if it's just confirmation of scores or an appeal, probably your test scores wasn't computed, you go through your level advisor who raises it up with the lecturer or through the exam officer. There are so some cases whereby the lecturer is accessible to the student, the student can reach out to the lecturer to lay their complaints.

53.0 CONTACTS OF MAJOR LECTURERS IN THE DEPARTMENT
    1. 	i. Name = Flt Lt OE Olorunshola
		ii. Contact = 08068341127
    2. 	i. Name = Dr. Monday Abdullahi
		ii. Contact = 08035889844
    3. 	i. Name = Dr. Maaruf Lawal (Visiting)
		ii. Contact = 07030165876
    4. 	i. Name = Dr. Rabi Mustapha (Visiting)
		ii. Contact = 08035992000
    5. 	i. Name = Prof. Phillip Achimugu
		ii. Contact = 08093482286
    6. 	i. Name = Prof. MO Alimi (External)
		ii. Contact = 08035879918
    7. 	i. Name = Mrs Aanuoluwapo Baba-Onoja Abalaka
		ii. Contact = 08154967777
    8. 	i. Name = Ms. Joy Samson
		ii. Contact = 08068871914
    9. 	i. Name = Mrs. Aisha Hajjo Ramalan
		ii. Contact = 08034505313
    10. i. Name = Mr. Obunike Ubadike
		ii. Contact = 07055795177
    11. i. Name = Mr. Henry Mafua
		ii. Contact = 07086369099
    12. i. Name = Mr. Steve Ebuka Ihaegwara
		ii. Contact = 07035056125
    13. i. Name = Sqn Ldr Rupert William
		ii. Contact = 07065531350
    14. i. Name = Mr. Murtala A. Buhari (On Study Leave)
		ii. Contact = 07066061921
    15. i. Name = Mr. Femi Adeshina
		ii. Contact = 08126002400
    16. i. Name = Mr. Bright Ezekiel
		ii. Contact = 07030734140
    17. i. Name = Mr. Godwin Otu Akong
		ii. Contact = 08032738583
    18. i. Name = Mr. Bello Shuaibu
		ii. Contact = 08034422098
    19. i. Name = Mrs. Onyinye Okpokpo
		ii. Contact = 08066270045
    20. i. Name = Mrs. AC Okafor
		ii. Contact = 
    21. i. Name = Mrs. OT Abolarin
		ii. Contact = 
    22. i. Name = Mr. Adamu Haruna
        ii. Contact = 
    23. i. Name = Mr. Sabiu Danlami
        ii. Contact = 
    24. i. Name = Mrs. RO Rofiat
        ii. Contact = 
    25. i. Name = Mrs. Oyebanji
        ii. Contact = 			   
